DRN-4632738 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr J complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Personal Finance (who 
I’ll call Novuna) were unreasonable to reject a claim he made to them, that they considered 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). 
What happened 
In September 2023 Mr J bought a two-seat sofa from a merchant I will call N. He paid for the 
goods with a fixed sum loan he agreed with Novuna. He tried to amend the order the next 
day to a three-seat sofa. The merchant explained that was possible, but that in line with their 
terms and conditions he’d need to pay an administration charge of £100.  
Mr J thought that was unreasonable and he complained to Novuna. They considered the 
claim under section 75 but rejected it as they didn’t think there’d been a breach of contract. 
They explained that Mr J hadn’t cancelled the order on the same day and in those 
circumstances, N were entitled to charge an administration fee. 
When Mr J referred his complaint to this service our investigator didn’t think Novuna had 
been unreasonable. Mr J was disappointed, and he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I know it will disappoint Mr J, but I’m not upholding this complaint. I’ll explain why. 
 
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
 
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point, it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a certain type of fixed sum 
loan, as was the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of 
the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a 
credit agreement has a right to make the same claim against the credit provider as against 
the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
 
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met. 
 

 
 
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a legal claim Mr J may have under the CCA but I’m 
required to take it into account when deciding whether Novuna have been reasonable to 
reject his claims. 
 
While consumers do have rights to a cooling off period when ordering online, by phone, or 
through mail order, no such rights apply to purchases made in-store. I understand why Mr J 
thinks N’s policy of allowing a free cancellation on the day is unreasonable as it extends little 
time for him to be able to do so. But as N didn’t have to provide a free cancellation, I don’t 
think Novuna were unreasonable to suggest there hadn’t been a breach of contract here, 
and to reject Mr J’s claim. 
 
I’m not, therefore, asking them to take any action. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2024. 
   
Phillip McMahon 
Ombudsman