DRN-5158832 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss F complains Santander UK Plc failed to release funds in her account and then closed 
the account. She wants her funds paid to her and compensation. 
What happened 
Miss F opened a current account with Santander in 2024. In July 2024 she received a large 
payment into her account sent by a hotel. 
The payment triggered a review by Santander. They blocked the account until Miss F 
provided satisfactory proof of her entitlement to the payment. 
Miss F explained the payment was sent by her late mother’s employer in relation to a policy. 
Her mother had enrolled in a death in service benefit with her employer, and Miss F along 
with her other siblings were nominated as beneficiaries. Very sadly her mother passed away 
that June while still employed, so the death in service benefit was activated. Miss F told 
Santander she needed access to the funds to travel abroad for her mother’s funeral. 
Since July 2024 Miss F provided multiple pieces of information and evidence to Santander, 
but Santander remain unsatisfied. This included: 
• Messages and e mails between Miss F and the person dealing with the matter at her 
mother’s former employer to arrange the payment of the death in service benefit. 
 
• Emails between members of staff at her mother’s former employer regarding arranging 
the payment of the benefit. 
 
• Emails between Miss F and a member of staff from her mother’s former employer when 
trying to obtain evidence Santander wanted. This included an email where the employer 
refused to provide a copy of their policy due to it containing personal information of other 
persons and company information. 
 
• A letter from Miss F’s late mother’s employer which confirmed the payment was made to 
Miss F as she was nominated as a beneficiary by her late mother. 
 
• A copy of the signed nomination form Miss F’s late mother completed in April 2023. 
 
Santander decided to close Miss F’s account in early August 2024. They gave her 30 days’ 
notice, but the account remained locked. They removed the payment and held it in a sundry 
account. Their position remains that they want a copy of the employer’s policy showing   
Miss F’s entitlement and/or a testament from a solicitor – which presumably means evidence 
of her being entitled to the funds as part of her mother’s estate. 

 
 
Miss F says she is now struggling financially and really needs the funds. She has further 
explained that she doesn’t have other support, that her mother used to help her, and she is 
in a vulnerable situation. I thank Miss F for revealing more about her circumstances - I was 
sorry to hear about them 
Our investigator upheld Miss F’s complaint . In summary they concluded: 
• Santander have important obligations to verify payments. They hadn’t acted 
unreasonably by asking for proof of Miss F’s entitlement to the payment. 
 
• On 12 August 2024 Miss F sent Santander a copy of her late mother’s nomination 
form, which ought to have been sufficient to establish her entitlement. 
 
• The payment Miss F received wouldn’t form part of Miss F’s mother’s estate. It was a 
death in service employment benefit and its payment wouldn't require a will or grant 
of probate to be paid directly to Miss F as a nominated beneficiary. Miss F had 
shown she couldn’t get a copy of the employer’s policy, and the investigator had 
been emailed directly by the employer with a copy of the nomination form. 
 
• Santander had a copy of the form from Miss F on 12 August 2024, and it would have 
been reasonable to expect them to complete their review by 16 August 2024 when 
the payment ought to have been released. 
 
• Santander ought to have reviewed their decision to close the account during the 
notice period given their receipt of what should have been acceptable proof of 
entitlement. So, it wasn’t possible to say the closure of the account was fair. But the 
account doesn’t appear to have been Miss F’s main account and considering the 
activity on the account the closure wouldn’t appear to have had a substantial impact 
on her, so they were not awarding compensation on this point. 
 
• Santander ought to release the funds they are holding to Miss F and pay 8% simple 
interest per annum on them from 16 August 2024 to the date of settlement. The 
interest award is to reflect the time Miss F was deprived of funds she should have 
had use of. 
 
• Santander ought to pay Miss F £200 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience she was caused by still requiring evidence she couldn’t reasonably 
provide and the impact their actions had on her. 
Miss F accepted the outcome our investigator reached but Santander did not. They said the 
letter from Miss F’s late mother’s employer is not verifiable and could have been produced 
by anyone. They still require official documentation from the insurer who set up her mother’s 
death in service benefit. 
As no outcome was agreed informally, Miss F’s complaint was passed to make a final 
decision in my capacity as an ombudsman. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I’ve decided to uphold Miss F’s complaint. I’ll explain why. 
 
 
Santander have important legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing accounts. 
They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know their customer, monitor 
accounts, verify the source and purpose of funds, as well as detect and prevent other harm. 
Periodically or where a concern arises, banks will usually carry out a review and sometimes 
block accounts until the review completes or their concern is allayed. 
In Miss F’s case, she received a large one-off payment from a company which was unusual 
in relation to her normal account activity. So, I understand why Santander wanted to know 
more about the payment in line with their obligations, and I find their decision to restrict the 
account reasonable and not outside of normal retail banking practice. 
Miss F explained the payment she received was because her late mother nominated her 
along with her three other siblings as a beneficiary to a death in service benefit. Her mother 
opted into the benefit through a scheme ran by her employer – which is an established hotel 
and part of a chain of hotels operating in the UK and abroad. 
As far as I understand, death in service benefit is different to life assurance in a number of 
ways. It is generally either self-insured or the employer holds a policy with an external 
assurer. Employees may opt into the employee benefit, which is what Miss F’s late mother 
did. If an employee passes away then the employer will often receive the payment and hold 
it as trustee. The trustee(s) then have discretion on how to pay the award but will often pay 
according to their employee's nominations. 
Given the nature of the benefit and that it passes to an employer as trustee I can’t see that it 
would form part of Miss F’s estate to pass to persons under a will or letters of administration. 
So, I am not persuaded requiring a copy of a will or testament from a solicitor would 
establish proof of entitlement to the payment when the employer opts to pay a nominated 
beneficiary on a discretionary basis. 
I have read the nomination form and it ties in with my understanding above. It lists the 
nominated beneficiaries and refers to the trustees as having discretion on how the benefit 
will be paid. The form was sent from an email address purporting to be from the hotel, and it 
was sent both to Miss F and directly to our service. I have not seen evidence or information 
which would lead me to doubt the form’s authenticity or that it was not sent from Miss F’s 
mother’s former employer. I also don’t find Santander with Miss F’s permission could not 
have independently contacted the employer – which as I said appears to be an established 
hotel - to verify the scheme and Miss F’s entitlement. 
I've also considered all the other information and evidence Miss F provided and I find it 
plausible and persuasive. She sent in messages and emails both when the payment to the 
nominated beneficiaries was being arranged through the employer and at times 
contemporaneous to when Santander were asking her for further information. Again, I have 
seen no reason to doubt these emails aren’t genuine, particularly given there are inter-
employee emails which have been presented that regard arranging the payment of the 
benefit. 
I appreciate Santander want a copy of the policy the employer holds with their provider 
which permits employees to obtain the death in service benefit, but Miss F has asked for 
this, and it has been refused by the employer. They have said they do not want to disclose 
other person’s personal information and company information. Potentially the employer 
could have been more helpful in providing a redacted version of their policy, but ultimately 
the employer’s refusal to provide Santander what they want isn’t something which is fairly 
within Miss F’s gift to provide. 
 
 
Although I don’t take a direction to Santander to release funds lightly given their important 
legal and regulatory obligations, I find the circumstances of what Miss F provided taken 
cumulatively to the point of the receipt of the nomination form ought to have satisfied them 
that the payment was legitimate. I haven’t seen evidence to show the sending bank had 
concerns about the payment. And I’m satisfied that they could have taken further 
independent action to verify the payment themselves. Or, if they still had a concern about 
what kind of property the payment could represent there is a regulatory route they can take 
to obtain a defence to a certain type of prosecution. 
I’ve considered the other points Santander mentioned to our service which added to their 
concern about the payment, but I don’t find those concerns undermine the strength of 
evidence Miss F has provided. Miss F initially told Santander she wanted access to the 
funds to travel abroad to attend her mother’s funeral, and I don’t find this implausible given 
she has said her mother passed away only shortly before. 
Santander decided to close Miss F’s account, and it’s possible they would have 
reconsidered their position had they accepted Miss F was entitled to the payment, which I 
am satisfied they should have. But I’m also aware they had other concerns about the 
account, so it may have been that they would have taken the decision to close anyway. 
I see that the account does not appear to have been Miss F’s main account based on the 
account activity, which Miss F hasn’t disputed. So, on balance, I don’t find awarding 
compensation for the account closure or not having further use of the account would be 
appropriate. 
Miss F has though described being in a very difficult position financially and personally, and 
that the money Santander is holding is much needed. I haven’t seen evidence which would 
lead me to doubt what she has said or that she has been contradictory in her statements. 
I’m satisfied that Santander ought to have reached the decision to release the funds to her at 
least on 16 August 2024, shortly after they received the nomination form. So, the distress 
and inconvenience she experienced from this time could have been avoided. Given what 
Miss F has said I’m satisfied £200 is a sufficient sum to compensate her for how she felt 
during this time. I haven’t seen evidence which would lead me to award a larger sum than 
this. 
Putting things right 
Subject to Miss F accepting this decision by the deadline, I require Santander UK Plc to: 
• Pay Miss F the funds they are holding which I believe is £13,437.00. 
 
 
 
• Pay her 8% simple interest per annum on the sum they hold from 16 August 2024 
until the date of settlement. If Santander considers that it’s required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss F how much it’s 
taken off. It should also give Miss F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
 
• Pay her £200 for the distress and inconvenience she was caused by not releasing 
the funds from 16 August 2024. 
 
 
My final decision 
My final decision is I uphold Miss F’s complaint. Santander UK Plc should pay her redress in 
accordance with my above instructions.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2025. 
   
Liam King 
Ombudsman