DRN-4556674
The complaint
A complains Tide Platform Ltd (“Tide”) restricted and closed their account with immediate 
effect following a review. A adds that their funds were later only partially refunded – and they 
want Tide to return this to them. 
A say that Tide’s actions have caused them loss of business, distress and inconvenience for 
which they should be compensated
What happened
Following an internal review, Tide blocked A’s account on 2 September 2022. After 
completing its review, Tide informed A on 15 September 2022 that it had decided to close 
their account with immediate effect.
Tide added that it was working on sending back the funds to A held in their account and 
asked them for bank details to send it to, alongside a bank statement for verification 
purposes. 
Unhappy with Tide’s actions, A complained. Tide didn’t uphold A’s complaint saying it had 
acted in line with its obligations and did so in a timely manner. A referred their complaint to 
this service.
Tide returned around £3,040 to A in November 2022 whilst also closing the account. But it 
didn’t return £799.54 from A’s balance that had been withheld. 
One of our Instigator’s then looked into A’s complaint. They recommended it be upheld in 
part. In summary, they found:
- Tide had legitimate reasons to review and restrict A’s account and did so in line with 
its obligations. So Tide doesn’t need to compensate A for any financial loss they 
suffered during the period the account was blocked
- Tide’s decision to close A’s account with immediate effect wasn’t fair. But it should 
have given two months’ notice. Had Tide done this, it would’ve limited the impact to A 
because they would’ve been able to carry out their business activities whilst 
arranging alternative banking facilities 
- A sent Tide the information it requested to forward their funds on 
19 September 2022.  But it wasn’t until 7 November 2022 that Tide sent the partial 
refund of £3,039.90 to A’s nominated account. Tide says this delay was due to staff 
availability and the high case volumes it was dealing with. This isn’t a reasonable 
delay and Tide should have completed the transfer sooner
- Based on the information A has provided to this service about the origin of certain 
payments into their account, A was entitled to the funds that haven’t been returned to 
them. These funds were received as part of genuine business activity. So Tide 
should have returned all the funds it was withholding to A

- To put things right, Tide should pay A £200 for the account incorrectly being closed 
with immediate effect. It should also pay 8% simple on the returned £3,039.90 from 
4 October 2022 until 7 November 2022; and it should pay A the £799.54 it ought to 
have returned paying 8% simple interest on this from 4 October 2022 until settlement
A agreed with what our Investigator said. Tide did not. In short Tide argued that it had 
enough reason to be concerned about these remaining funds, and they weren’t from genuine 
business activity.
Our Investigator explained that Tide hadn’t carried out enough of an investigation when 
carrying out its review as would be expected, and reiterated that had it done so, A would’ve 
provided enough evidence to show they were entitled to the funds.
As there is no agreement, this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve decided to uphold this complaint in part. I’ll explain why.
Financial businesses in the UK, like Tide, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers’ accounts.
Tide has explained and sent us information to show why it decided to review and restrict the 
account. From what I’ve seen, I’m satisfied Tide acted in line with its obligations and terms of 
account when doing so.
I note A would like a more detailed explanation as to why Tide took these actions. But Tide is 
under no obligation to do so. I would also add that our rules allow us to receive evidence in 
confidence. We may treat evidence from regulated businesses as confidential for a number 
of reasons – for example, if it contains security information, or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Tide has provided is information we consider should be 
kept confidential.
Tide is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Tide closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Tide and A had to comply with, say it could 
close the account by giving them at least two months’ notice. And in certain circumstances it 
can close an account immediately or with less notice.
I’ve already said Tide and legitimate grounds to review and restrict A’s account. But given 
the specific concerns it had, Tide should have carried out a source of funds or proof of 
entitlement exercise. From the information I’ve seen, Tide failed to do so. Our Investigator 
asked A for information about certain payments. And after carefully considering this, I’m 
satisfied that those payments were borne out of legitimate business activity. So I think A is 
entitled to the £799.54 Tide didn’t return to it.
Had Tide carried out a proper review, I’m persuaded it would likely have given A two months’ 
notice in line with its terms and conditions. It’s clear A had another account they could use 
given the speed at which they gave this information to Tide after its review had been 
completed. So I think the ability to carry on their business activity and receive payments 
would’ve been limited.
But I do agree that had Tide given A two months’ notice it would’ve suffered less 
inconvenience than it has here – especially as it would’ve been able to open another 
account whilst winding down its use of the Tide account. A is a separate legal entity to that of 
a private individual – so it can’t suffer distress or anxiety, which after all is borne from 
emotion. So I must consider compensation here for the inconvenience A suffered only. 
Having done that, I’m persuaded £200 is fair compensation.
A was delayed in receiving their funds because of operational issues Tide faced. So I think it 
ought to compensate A for the time it’s been unfairly deprived of their funds. I’m persuaded 
that once A provided the information Tide wanted, 4 October 2022 is a reasonable point at 
which the release of funds ought to have happened - as opposed to 7 November 2022 when 
it did.
Putting things right
To put things right, Tide should: 
- Pay A 8% simple interest on £3,039.90 from 4 October 2022 until 7 November 2022* 
- Pay A £799.54. And pay 8% simple interest on this amount from 4 October 2022 up 
until settlement*
- Pay A £200 compensation for the inconvenience it’s been caused
 *If Tide considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct tax from that interest, it 
should tell A how much it’s taken off. It should also give A a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Tide Platform Ltd must now put things 
right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2024. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman