DRN-5006543 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr G is acting for the estates of his late parents against National Westminster Bank Plc. 
Mr G believes there are valuable items belonging to his family held in safe custody and safe 
deposit boxes still with the bank that should’ve been given to him and the estates. He is also 
unhappy about the safe custody items the bank mislaid and gave to non-family members. 
 
For ease I’ll refer to Mr G as the main party here throughout. 
 
What happened 
Mr G said NatWest must have items belonging to his late parents that it should find and pass 
on to him. Mr G said after his father passed away he wrote to NatWest to enquire after his 
parent’s safety deposit boxes. At that point, he was told they had been closed some time 
ago. He doesn’t think the bank has kept accurate details. Mr G didn’t feel he could challenge 
this as he had no further evidence. 
 
That changed when Mr G’s cousin went to collect his own items from the safe custody 
arrangements at the bank branch. Mr G’s cousin also collected two large cardboard boxes 
and when he opened them found they belonged to Mr G’s father. The cousin said he’d never 
given permission for Mr G’s box to be held with his own safe custody items. Mr G’s cousin 
delivered these cardboard boxes to him. 
 
Mr G said his father had told him he had valuable jewellery and other items stored in a safety 
deposit box. When it undertook a further search NatWest did find some other safe custody 
items it was holding for Mr G’s mother. 
 
Unhappy with this Mr G decided to bring a complaint to this service. 
 
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. He said the bank records showed all Mr G’s 
parent’s arrangements had been closed back in 2014. And that no other valuables had been 
located during the banks search processes. The bank had found some other items belonging 
to the family in safe custody rather than a safety deposit box. He said NatWest had made 
reasonable efforts to conduct checks. 
 
Mr G didn’t accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision. 
 
In my recent provisional decision, I said: 
 
“Mr G said he checked his parent’s banking arrangements after his father had passed away 
and NatWest had confirmed any safe custody arrangements had been closed many years 
before. 
 
It was only after he was contacted by his cousin who passed to him boxes of his father’s 
items that Mr G further challenged NatWest. Despite writing to NatWest Mr G said he didn’t 
get an acceptable answer as to what had happened. He also didn’t know why NatWest had 
handed his cousin Mr G’s father’s items. 

 
 
 
NatWest conducted further searches and found some other items belonging to Mr G’s late 
mother. NatWest referred to these as “orphaned items” and said the items weren’t 
connected to a bank account. Mr G noted that NatWest was still unable to explain what had 
happened and Mr G felt the bank had been unhelpful. 
 
Mr G doesn’t think NatWest had any organised and proper system for safeguarding 
customers items. He doesn’t feel confident that NatWest holds nothing more belonging to his 
parents. 
 
Mr G said his father didn’t mention safety deposit boxes in his will, but said he clearly had 
one. Mr G continued to refer to specific valuable items including jewellery he and his sister 
were sure their parents placed with NatWest for safe keeping. But he said he had no 
receipts or other records of a safety deposit box. 
 
NatWest apologised for not letting Mr G know earlier about the items it held in safe custody 
for his late mother. It said the reason it had missed this previously was because the items 
weren’t linked to a bank account so when it searched accounts it didn’t show up on the safe 
custody report. It said the items were showing as “orphaned items” due to not being linked to 
any account. NatWest said it had a strict process of requesting the appropriate 
documentation for the release of items in safe custody for deceased customers to ensure 
items were only returned to the correct party. It continued “Safe custody is of higher risk 
because we don’t know the value of items being held, and can be of sentimental value to 
customers.” In view of the issues it had caused it agreed to look at refunding costs if Mr G’s 
solicitor executor needed to attend the bank branch to collect the items. 
 
NatWest confirmed there was nothing else in safe custody in the name of Mr G’s parents. It 
said their items had been withdrawn a number of years ago. The last record for Mr G’s 
parents showed the items removed on 24 February 2014 and the final set of pro-rata fees for 
such a service had been paid the following day. 
 
NatWest apologised that Mr G’s father’s items had been linked to his cousin’s safe custody 
items. 
 
Regarding jewellery and valuable items NatWest said without any evidence it couldn’t 
conduct any further investigation. It said if Mr G could produce any further details, it would be 
happy to look into the matter further. It said safe deposit box arrangements are usually 
ended by the estate when a customer dies. 
 
I can totally understand why Mr G lacks confidence in what NatWest has said about its 
record keeping and storing items in safe custody. 
 
Safe custody items are held within the safe inside bank branches. Usually these are linked to 
a bank account. In the case of Mr G’s mother’s items these were considered “orphaned” and 
there’s no clear reason as to why these items weren’t linked to an account. The items were 
only found when NatWest conducted a further search. These items should’ve been returned 
to Mr G when his mother passed away. Mr G said NatWest hasn’t given any real 
explanation. I agree with Mr G, I don’t think NatWest has acted fairly or reasonably here. 
 
There’s also still mystery around why Mr G’s father’s items were stored with his cousin’s safe 
custody items. I’m a still a little unclear about whether any of Mr G’s items were in a safety 
deposit box owned by Mr G’s cousin or even if Mr G’s cousin had a safety deposit box. As 
the words and language used to describe what happened here has switched between safe 
custody and safety deposit box throughout evidence from both parties. 
 
 
 
Overall, it appears on balance that Mr G’s cousin had items in safe custody and as his 
surname is the same these sets of items were kept together as the branch suspected a 
family connection. But based on what NatWest said above about the amount of care and 
checking it does around items in safe custody it seems very odd that these items with a 
different first name noted on them would be just handed to someone who shares the same 
surname. I don’t think NatWest has acted fairly or reasonably on this. It doesn’t appear to 
have followed the process it referred to above. 
 
NatWest didn’t know why the cardboard boxes hadn’t been handed back to Mr G’s parents 
when they stopped paying for the safe custody service in 2014. These boxes also appear to 
have been considered “orphaned items.” NatWest confirmed all safe custody stored items 
were always held in the safe and everything was under “dual control” no individual had 
access to the items in the safe on their own at any time. 
 
There’s no written evidence, receipts, or records to show that any valuables were placed 
with the bank or in a safety deposit box by Mr G’s father. Without this, and on this issue, I 
think the bank acted reasonably when it checked its records and said it would check further if 
any evidence could be provided about valuables or a safety deposit box. 
 
It’s clear that Mr G has found this whole situation upsetting and frustrating. I can understand 
why he feels NatWest may still be holding items that belong to him and his family. But 
there’s no evidence of this and without evidence there’s no more action I can expect 
NatWest to take regarding further checks. However, regarding the two sets of “orphaned 
items” that belonged to Mr G’s parents I think it would be distressing for anyone to contend 
with. So, I think NatWest should compensate Mr G for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused him. Its clear Mr G doesn’t believe what the bank now tells him and he’s still worried 
about what else might be missing. In view of the errors around the two sets of safe custody 
items I think NatWest should pay Mr G £300.” 
 
Responses to my provisional decision 
 
NatWest responded and agreed acceptance of the provisional decision. 
 
Mr G responded and I’ll pick out the main points. Mr G said my provisional decision showed 
the poor administration and systems at NatWest. He said I had purported to endorse his 
position. But that meant the £300 compensation is derisory and insulting. Mr G said he 
should get a more substantial figure. Mr G said his time would have been better served on 
virtually anything else rather than dealing with this issue. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr G has reiterated a point I made. But I followed that up in the provisional decision by 
highlighting there’s no evidence to suggest NatWest is still holding any items which should 
be passed to him. 
 
I understand that Mr G remains upset, but I think the amount is fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances and details of his complaint. 
 
As neither party has brought any other or new evidence my provisional decision becomes 
my final decision. 
 
 
 
Putting things right 
Pay £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G. 
My final decision 
I uphold this complaint. 
 
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to: 
 
• Pay £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask the estates of Mr 
G and X to accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2024. 
   
John Quinlan 
Ombudsman