DRN-4867051 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr P is unhappy that Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A (‘Generali’) hasn’t accepted liability for a 
claim made under a group income protection policy (‘the policy’). 
 
What happened 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
That includes all the points made by Mr P in response to our investigator’s view. I appreciate 
the time this must’ve taken him, and I am thankful for his detailed reply. I acknowledge I’ve 
only summarised his points, and in my own words. I won’t respond to everything said. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I’ve focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. The rules that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this as we are 
an informal dispute resolution service. If there’s something I’ve not mentioned, it isn’t 
because I’ve overlooked it. I haven’t. I’m satisfied I don’t need to comment on every point to 
be able to fulfil my statutory remit. 
 
The relevant policy terms and conditions 
 
The policy terms say: 
 
Benefit is payable…once a member has continuously satisfied the relevant definition 
of Incapacity for a period of time greater than the Deferred Period. 
 
The policy schedule sets out the applicable definition of incapacity as: 
 
As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material 
and Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other 
Work or occupation. 
 
The policy terms say “work” means: 
 
On the part of a Member, any employment, self-employment, or consultancy or 
engaging in any work or physical activity which gives rise, or is capable of giving rise, 
to any remuneration, income, fees, profits, capital or other gains, whether or not they 
are taxable and whether or not they are paid to, or to the order of, or enjoyed, 
whether directly or indirectly, by the Member of any person with whom he lives or to 
whom he is related or who is dependant on him.  
 
The policy terms also say: 
 

 
 
If the policy is discontinued, the Principal Employer’s entitlement to claim Benefit in 
respect of any Member who was Incapacitated prior to the date of discontinuation 
shall continue… 
 
The decision not to accept liability for the claim 
 
I know Mr P will be very disappointed, and I have a lot of empathy for the situation he finds 
himself in, but for reasons set out below, I’m satisfied that Generali has acted fairly and 
reasonably by concluding that no claim can be made under the policy in respect of Mr P’s 
absence from work. 
 
• Mr P was signed off work by his GP for three months at the start of September 2022 
and the policy ended at midnight on 31 August 2022. 
• I’m satisfied that given the way in which incapacity is defined under the policy terms, 
Mr P wasn’t incapacitated until that date as he was carrying out ‘work’ as defined by 
the policy terms. Although, he may not have been carrying out his full duties (and he 
says he hadn’t done so for some time before being signed off sick by his GP), he was 
still in full time work, wasn’t absent through sickness and was receiving his salary 
from his employer immediately prior to, and when, the policy ended.  
• So, under a strict interpretation of the policy terms, I don’t think Mr P met the 
definition of incapacity at the time the policy ended. And I’m persuaded that Generali 
has fairly concluded that a claim can’t be considered on the policy, which ended 
shortly before Mr P was signed off sick from work.  
• I’ve carefully considered whether that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And I’m satisfied it does (although, from Mr P’s 
perspective, I can understand why he’d disagree).  
• Mr P says he could’ve legitimately been signed off work sick before the start of 
September 2022. He says that he’d realised his health was deteriorating in July 2022 
and he told his employer at the start of August 2022 that he couldn’t continue 
working. Mr P says that rather than reduce his hours, he agreed to work until the 
beginning of September 2022 to ensure a smooth handover of his duties. However, I 
don’t think this means Generali should consider a claim outside of the policy terms. 
Although, it was aware of his medical condition and that there were regular 
conversations with the policyholder about his illness deteriorating, I don’t think it was 
under any obligation in the circumstances of this case to consider a claim if made 
after the policy ended.  
• At the start of August 2022, Mr P says Generali agreed that a claim should be 
submitted once he was signed off sick from the beginning of September 2022 and 
didn’t say that a claim should be made before then. However, I don’t think Generali 
was aware that the policy was unlikely to be renewed by the policyholder. And 
besides, whether Mr P is too unwell to work and met the definition of incapacity is a 
medical issue. If Mr P and his employer had agreed one month in advance that Mr P 
would continue working his usual hours until the beginning of September 2022 (to 
handover his work), and Mr P felt well enough to do so, then I don’t think it would be 
fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Mr P was effectively incapacitated before 
the policy ended.  
• I note that for some time before the policy ended Generali was aware of Mr P’s 
illness and provided support for him to stay in work for as long as possible. In 2021, 
Generali put Mr P on its early intervention scheme and provided him with vocational 
rehabilitation support, whilst he was still working. However, I’m not satisfied that this 
means a claim was made under the policy before it ended. Under the heading 
 
 
‘claiming for benefit payments’ the policy says that the principal employer “shall 
promptly notify Generali when a Member has been continuously absent from Work 
for one month (or has Worked on a reduced basis for a period greater than one 
month) due to injury or illness” and that a “a formal claim for Benefit shall be made by 
the Principal Employer as soon as reasonably practicable but in any event no later 
than 6 weeks…” From what I’ve seen, I’m not persuaded that a claim was made for 
the Benefit before the policy ended (although support was given by Generali).  
• I’ve also taken into account that Mr P says that the insurer to whom his employer 
switched cover has also said it won’t be considering a claim for income protection as 
under the terms of that policy it says that Mr P wasn’t actively at work at the time the 
policy started with it. However, I’m not convinced that means Generali ought 
reasonably to consider a claim under the policy outside of the policy terms. If Mr P is 
unhappy with the decision of the other insurer, he’s free to pursue a complaint 
against it.  
My final decision 
I don’t uphold this complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2024. 
   
David Curtis-Johnson 
Ombudsman