DRN-5193642 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr L complains rebuildingsociety.com Ltd (RBSL) provided misleading information about 
returns on his peer-to-peer (P2P) lending investments. He is also unhappy with actions it has 
taken to recover funds from defaulted loans.  
 
What happened 
Mr L deposited a total of just under £130,000 into his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(“SIPP”) account and standard account with RBSL in 2015. In April 2017, Mr L began to de- 
invest from the platform. 
 
Mr L complained to RBSL on 28 May 2023 as he had several concerns with the platform. 
RBSL considered Mr L’s complaint but didn’t uphold it. Mr L remained unhappy with RBSL’s 
response and so he referred his complaint to this service for an independent review. 
 
In December 2023, an ombudsman issued a decision on our jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint. He found some of the complaint had been referred too late, but we could consider 
some aspects. In summary he said: 
- Mr L’s complaint points about misleading information on the returns of his investment 
had been outside of the time limits that apply. So we would not be considering the 
merits of this complaint point.  
- We could consider the complaint points Mr L has raised about recovery action on 
defaulted loans in relation to activity that occurred within six years of when Mr L 
complained. So we can consider Mr L’s concerns regarding any recovery action 
taken since 28 May 2017 (six years prior to Mr L complaining) only. 
 
In November 2024, I issued a provisional decision on the merits of the complaint in relation 
the complaint issues that had been made in time. This is what I said: 
 
“My considerations of this complaint relate to the complaint Mr L made about the recovery 
actions RBSL has undertaken and the updates around this on his active loans in default. As 
set out in the decision issued by the ombudsman on our jurisdiction, this includes the events 
that did (or didn’t) happen within six years of Mr L raising his complaint.  
 
P2P lending of this type involves RBSL acting on behalf of lenders and borrowers to ensure 
the relevant loan payments are received. Where loans have security included a security 
trustee is appointed to act on behalf of lenders – including in situations where there are 
payment problems leading to a default. In simple terms, lenders like Mr L appoint RBSL to 
act as their agent in relation to the loans they invest in – which includes any recovery action 
that is required when payment problems occur. Not every loan performs exactly as 
expected, so it’s not uncommon for RBSL to have to carry out action on behalf of lenders 
when loans default.  
 
Mr L doesn’t feel RBSL has met its regulatory obligations. The Financial Conduct Authority’s 
(FCA) Principles for Business (“PRIN”) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. The most relevant principles here are: 
 

 
 
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) “A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.” 
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) “A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and  
treat them fairly.” 
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) “A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients,  
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not  
misleading.” 
 
RBSL is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the FCA’s Conduct of  
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are: 
 
COBS 2.1.1R (1) “A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its client.” 
COBS 4.2.1R (1) “A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion  
is fair, clear and not misleading.” 
 
In making his original complaint, Mr L has made general concerns about how RBSL has 
handled recovery action on his portfolio as he has incurred a number of defaulted loans for 
which he hasn’t received any returns for a number of years. He has also expressed 
unhappiness with how he was kept updated on the position of his loans.  
 
RBSL has stated it has been undertaking recovery action on Mr L’s behalf – and to support 
this it has included examples of where its actions have had a successful outcome for Mr L 
and he has had capital and interest.  
 
But Mr L’s concerns relate to the situations where he hasn’t had funds returned and/or he 
hasn’t received updates to understand what is going on with his remaining active loans that 
are in default. Mr L says he hasn’t received a single repayment in the last six months and 
most have not made any repayments in several years. He also says there has been a lack of 
meaningful loan updates and based on this he can only assume that no recovery activity is 
taking place. In his original complaint he made reference to three loans in particular. So, I’ve 
focused my findings on these loans.  
 
For Loan S, this loan has been in default since 2015, and Mr L says the last payment he 
received from this loan was in June 2015 with no updates since March 2020.  
 
RBSL has sent us the updates it provided - the last three are dated February 2021, August 
2023 and February 2024. From reviewing the updates, I can see when the loan first 
defaulted regular updates were provided explaining the recovery action taking place but 
these seem to largely stop in 2020, apart from the updates referred to above. The updates 
indicate legal challenges have made it difficult for the recovery to complete and there were 
complexities caused by the impact of the pandemic. The June 2023 complaint final response 
letter (the FRL) also provided an update to say a charge on a property was being pursued, 
and while the process had been slow RBSL expected the property to be successfully sold 
with a recovery to lenders over the next 12-18 months. And it anticipated that lenders are 
likely to receive all capital and some interest back on this recovery. The most recent update 
I’ve seen from February 2024 indicates a realistic offer had been received on the property 
and progress was being made. I haven’t seen anything to indicate whether further progress 
has been made since then.  
 
For Loan P, this loan has also been in default for several years, and Mr L says the last 
payment he received from this loan was several years ago, with no updates since February 
2022.  
 
RBSL has sent us the updates it provided on this loan. The February 2022 update Mr L has 
referred to as the last, was the most recent on for quite a while, but it has also now sent a 
 
 
January 2024 update.  When the loan first defaulted regular updates were provided 
explaining the recovery action. The updates provided by RBSL indicate a breakdown with 
the borrower and difficulties pursuing the guarantors for repayment on the loan. The updates 
also indicate complexities with pursuing a second charge on the guarantor’s property. There 
have been limited updates in recent years, as the situation remains unresolved.  The June 
2023 FRL provided an update that explained a repayment plan is in place but the recovery 
costs have taken up all the repayments. But a small capital distribution to lenders is likely in 
late 2024 / 2025. The January 2024 update confirms payments are up to date under the 
settlement agreement but there still hadn’t been enough to make a distribution to lenders. It 
also said there was an expected final bullet payment in October of this year, which if made 
should enable a distribution to lenders. I haven’t seen any further update to see if this 
payment occurred.   
 
For Loan L, this loan has also been in default for several years, and Mr L says the last 
payment he received from this loan was in August 2015, with no updates since March 2020.  
 
RBSL has sent us the updates it provided. The March 2020 update was the last, but it has 
now also now sent a January 2024 update.  When the loan first defaulted regular updates 
were provided explaining the recovery actions taking place but these seemed to stop in 
2020. It is apparent from the updates given by RBSL that protracted negotiations with the 
guarantor for the loan resulted in delays and subsequent insolvency action. After March 
2020 the updates stopped. RBSL did provide an update in the June 2023 FRL which 
explained the recovery processes are active and progressing through its solicitors, but there 
are complications relating to bankruptcy hearings that are impacting the speed and level of 
success. The January 2024 update indicates there have been further issues pursuing the 
guarantor and further insolvency action was needed. It is unclear from the evidence I’ve 
seen if further progress has been made since then.  
 
From the evidence I’ve seen through the updates that were provided, and the position RBSL 
set out in the FRL, I’m satisfied recovery action was taking place. But the process for all 
three loans has been slow and difficulties in recovery have meant little or nothing has been 
returned to Mr L yet. RBSL has suggested it still hopes to make recoveries, particularly for 
Loan S. The nature of recovery debts from unsecured loans can be difficult and involve 
many challenges where the borrower or guarantors are unable to meet repayments. This 
can lead to protracted legal processes through the insolvency action.  
 
I have seen that RBSL was taking action to support lenders’ interests. The insolvency action 
it has pursued on the loans does support that it was protecting lenders’ interests. The fact 
this hasn’t been successful yet, doesn’t mean it has failed in its obligations. The nature of 
P2P lending means there is always a risk of capital loss and non-payment of interest. From 
reviewing the updates and from the information provided, it is clear that issues with the 
borrowers and guarantors has largely been the reason why payments haven’t been made. 
RBSL’s latest updates indicate that it is still pursuing matters - but ultimately it is still not 
clear if it will be successful in returning funds to Mr L.  
 
With regards to the updates provided to Mr L, these haven’t been regular, particularly in 
more recent years. Since 2020, for all three loans, there were significant periods where Mr L 
had no understanding of what was happening.  It is clear Mr L knew for many years that 
there were problems with recovering funds, but the lack of updates meant he was left in the 
dark, with little understanding of what has happening and if he was likely to get anything 
back. So, I think RBSL has failed here. This has caused Mr L frustration, and he has 
explained that it has put him to a lot of effort to gain an understanding of the position of his 
investments.  
 
 
 
I’ve considered whether Mr L has suffered a financial loss as a result of RBSL’s failure to 
provide timely updates. While I can understand the frustration of not receiving updates, I 
don’t think receiving clear and more regular updates would have resulted in Mr L receiving 
repayments sooner. The information available about the reason for recovery action not being 
successful, doesn’t suggest better communications to Mr L would have prevented him from 
suffering the losses he is facing now. As the recovery action is still ongoing, it isn’t possible 
to quantify what losses Mr L may suffer. This will only be known when the recovery action 
either proves successful, or the loans are written off as bad debt.  
 
Mr L has referred to a lender vote on another defaulted loan (Loan H), where he says he has 
suffered a loss as a result of RBSL’s recovery actions. He says as part of the recovery 
action, RBSL asked lenders to vote on a repayment proposal in July 2016. He says RBSL 
indicated, if agreed by lenders, the return would be approximately 40%. But after the 
proposal was voted in and implemented lenders only received 13% when distributions were 
made in December 2016. He says this is a loss caused by RBSL providing misleading 
information.   
 
I’m unable to consider this point. As set out by the previous ombudsman in the jurisdiction 
decision, I’m unable to consider events that happened more than six years before Mr L 
made his complaint. The events Mr L is complaining about here happened outside of this 
time limits as he complaint more than six years after the event, and he was aware of his 
cause for complaint when he received the lower-than-expected distribution in December 
2016, so this wouldn’t extend the time under the three-year part of the rules. 
 
In summary, the nature of investing in P2P loans does present a risk to lenders that  
borrowers’ default and a risk of losses where recovery action isn’t able to return all capital  
and interest due. I’m not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence to say there were  
failings by RBSL that contributed to the problems in the recovery process. But I accept that it 
failed to keep Mr L properly updated and this did cause him distress and inconvenience.  
I intend to require RBSL to pay Mr L compensation for the impact of its failings. I propose it 
pays Mr L £250 in compensation. I also direct RBSL to provide the up-to-date position on Mr 
L’s remaining open loans.”   
  
Neither Mr L nor RBSL responded to provide any further submissions for me to consider.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As neither party has provided further evidence or arguments in response to my provisional 
findings, I’ve got no reason to change the outcome I set out above.  
 
In conclusion, I’m not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence to say there were  
failings by RBSL that contributed to the problems in the recovery process on the P2P loans 
Mr L is invested in. But I accept that it failed to keep Mr L properly updated and this did 
cause him distress and inconvenience.  
 
I require RBSL to pay Mr L compensation for the impact of its failings. I direct it to pay Mr L 
£250 in compensation. I also direct RBSL to provide Mr L with the up-to-date position on his 
remaining open loans.  
 
 
 
My final decision 
I uphold this complaint in part and direct rebuildingsociety.com Ltd to pay the compensation 
set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2025. 
   
Daniel Little 
Ombudsman