DRN-4487293
The complaint
Ms B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) will not agree to a 
transfer of equity into her sole name. 
What happened
Mr B and Ms B initially took out a mortgage together with Halifax. Since then, Mr B has 
moved out of the mortgaged property and ceased all payments toward the mortgage. As a 
result, Ms B has been making the payments toward the mortgage for over 18 months by 
herself. 
Ms B approached Halifax and asked that the mortgage be transferred into her sole name. 
She says she was told to continue paying the mortgage by herself for six months to evidence 
affordability and to apply at that stage. Ms B did as was suggested but Halifax declined the 
application as unaffordable and suggested Ms B continue to evidence affordability by 
continuing to pay the mortgage on her own for an additional six months. Ms B did this, 
reapplied but was declined on the same grounds. 
Ms B has now applied for the mortgage to be transferred into her name three times – each 
time it has been declined by Halifax as being unaffordable for her. It says that a large 
proportion of her income is made up of child maintenance and benefits, some of which would 
cease during the full term of the mortgage. So, it did not think maintaining the mortgage 
would be sustainable for Ms B. It has also highlighted that even if it did consider all the 
benefits Ms B receives for her children, her income still falls short of the total amount she is 
asking to borrow. 
Unhappy with Halifax’s decision, Ms B raised a complaint. 
Halifax reassessed the application, including an appeal to the underwriters, but ultimately 
concluded that the application was unaffordable for Ms B. It acknowledged Ms B had been 
making the payments by herself for some time and the comments that other affordability 
calculators had shown the application to be affordable. But it did not change its decision to 
decline the lending. 
Dissatisfied with Halifax’s response, Ms B referred the complaint to our service with Mr B’s 
consent. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but did not think it should be upheld. He 
appreciated Ms B’s position and that she had evidenced that she had been covering the 
monthly repayments by herself for some time. But he didn’t think Halifax had unfairly in its 
assessment of her application – highlighting the need for the debt to be sustainable across 
the term of the mortgage, not just the fixed interest period. 
Ms B disagreed with the investigator’s assessment and asked that the case be reviewed 
again. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally it has been passed to me to decide.  

What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms B 
and that she feels strongly about this complaint. But I hope the reasons I have set out below 
will help her to understand why I have reached this conclusion. 
Ms B doesn’t agree that the application was unaffordable, she doesn’t think Halifax took 
everything into account or acknowledged that she has been paying the mortgage by herself 
for over a year. Halifax doesn’t think Ms B can afford to take on the mortgage on her own. 
So, what I need to decide is whether Halifax gave fair consideration to Ms B’s application, 
and I’m satisfied it did. 
Before Halifax agrees to lend funds to a borrower, as a responsible lender it must ensure 
that the borrowing would be affordable for them – in both the short and the long term. The 
rules that Halifax must follow in relation to that are set out in the Mortgages and Home 
Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (also known as MCOB). In summary, before 
agreeing to lend, lenders need to ensure that the mortgage would be affordable for the 
borrower over the whole term, taking account of likely future interest rate increases and any 
anticipated change in circumstances. 
Unfortunately, after considering Ms B’s application, Halifax found that the application did not 
meet its affordability assessment. So, it declined the application. The decision was appealed 
to its underwriters and the outcome remained the same. Having reviewed the evidence 
Halifax has considered, I’m satisfied it did not meet Halifax’s criteria for affordability reasons. 
I’m not persuaded that decision has been made unfairly. 
One of the reasons shared with Ms B as to the decline of her application was that a large 
proportion of her income comes from benefits and child maintenance – some of which will 
stop during the term of the mortgage when two of her three children become adults. 
Ms B disputes this is a fair assessment. She highlights that when she ceases to receive this 
income, the children will be working and paying rent to stay in her property. She also argues 
that her outgoings in relation to those two children will also decrease. And she does not 
agree that Halifax should decline an application based on an anticipated drop in her income 
which would take place after her fixed-interest period ends. 
In agreeing to lend, Halifax must assure itself that the lending is affordable for the whole 
term of the mortgage, not just the initial fixed-interest period. In doing so, it is complying with 
mortgage regulation intended to protect customers like Ms B. While I can understand why 
Ms B thinks the application should focus on what her affordability is now, I can’t say Halifax 
has acted in error or has treated her unfairly by ensuring that the mortgage would be 
affordable for her throughout the full term – particularly given the likely increase in interest 
rates and known drop in income. 
During the appeal to its underwriters, Halifax did run the application including all the child 
maintenance and benefit income Ms B receives, but the application still failed. Including all of 
Ms B’s income against the income multiplier that Halifax uses Ms B’s application still falls 
short. As such, her total income was deemed insufficient to support the full mortgage 
balance on her own at this moment in time. This may change in the future as the mortgage 
balance naturally decreases through repayment, but for now, I am not persuaded Halifax has 
acted unreasonably in the way it has assessed Ms B’s application. 
Ms B has suggested that the risk to Halifax in granting the application would be small as the 
value of her house means she has significant equity in the property. However, the amount of 
equity in the property would not change the amount Ms B could afford to pay toward her 
mortgage each month. So, the value of the house does not reduce the risk of Ms B falling 
behind with her repayments should they become unaffordable or unsustainable for her in the 
future. 
Whilst I appreciate Ms B will be disappointed with this outcome, I’m satisfied Halifax fairly 
considered her application based on her circumstances both at the time and during the 
course of the mortgage. So, I am not going to recommend that it do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons I’ve explained, I do not uphold this complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2024.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman