DRN-4001534
The complaint
Ms C’s complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) refused to provide 
suitable alternative appliances when she made a claim on her maintenance and support 
policy following an oven breakdown. And that she was mis-sold replacement policies in 
2019.
What happened
Ms C has held a policy with D&G for many years. The policy provided cover in the event that 
her kitchen appliances needed repair or had to be replaced. For many years, several 
appliances were covered under one plan. But D&G later withdrew this option, which was 
replaced by individual policies for each item.
In late 2021, Ms C’s built-in oven stopped working. So she contacted D&G to make a claim 
under the policy. The oven couldn’t be repaired so Ms C was offered an equivalent model to 
replace it.
Ms C didn’t consider the options she was offered to be an equivalent replacement. When 
she told D&G this, they offered to replace the oven with one of the options she found 
acceptable. But they said an upgrade fee would apply. Ms C wasn’t happy with these options 
and complained to D&G.
In their final response dated 4 November 2021, D&G said they’d offered a total of 11 suitable 
replacement options and wouldn’t waive the upgrade fee if Ms C wanted a more expensive 
item. Alternatively, they offered Ms C a cash settlement.
Ms C continued to complain to D&G about the replacement options she’d been offered for 
her oven. And she raised a new complaint that she’d been mis-sold policies with less 
favourable terms in 2019, when D&G had withdrawn her multi-appliance policy and replaced 
it with a policy for each appliance
D&G sent Ms C another final response on 8 February 2022. They said that they wouldn’t 
address her complaint about replacement appliances, as they’d dealt with this previously.
In relation to the complaint about replacing the policies, D&G said Ms C had had a three 
appliance plan until 2019 – which they no longer sold. They said that, when Ms C had had a 
fridge replaced under the policy at that time, they’d given her the choice of adding her new 
appliance on. But Ms C had declined and had opted to take single plans.
And D&G accepted that their staff hadn’t been as polite and courteous to Ms C when she 
complained as they would expect them to. D&G sent Ms C a cheque for £10 to compensate 
her for this.
Ms C wasn’t satisfied with D&G’s response and brought her complaint to our service on 7 
August 2022. Our investigator considered it and concluded D&G didn’t need to do any more 
to resolve it. He compared the terms dealing with repair and replacement in Ms C’s current 
policy and previous multi-appliance policy and concluded they provide the same cover. And 

in respect of the replacement appliances, he was satisfied D&G had offered options with 
equivalent technical specifications – which was in line with the policy terms.
I didn’t agree with the conclusions our investigator reached.  So I made a provisional 
decision.
In that, I explained I didn’t think we have jurisdiction to consider Ms C’s complaint about the 
replacement options D&G had offered her, because our rules only allow us to consider 
complaints referred to us within six months of a business sending its customer a final 
response letter.  I was satisfied that D&G had addressed this issue in their final response 
letter dated 4 November 2021, but Ms C didn’t refer the matter to us until 7 August 2022.  
And I wasn’t presented with any evidence which led me to conclude there were exceptional 
circumstances which meant we should consider the complaint outside this time limit.
Similarly, we can only investigate what our rules refer to as “regulated activities”.  
Complaints handling isn’t a regulated activity.  So I provisionally decided we couldn’t 
consider how D&G dealt with Ms C’s complaint when she raised it with them.
I was satisfied we could consider the merits of Ms C’s complaint that she was mis-sold 
replacement policies in 2019.  But, having done that, I provisionally decided not to uphold 
that complaint.  I explained in my provisional decision that comparing the wording of the old 
and replacement policies showed it was substantially the same – and that applying either 
wording in the event of a claim would lead to the same outcome.  D&G explained that they 
couldn’t continue to offer Ms C her previous policy because they’d withdrawn it.  So I didn’t 
think D&G had done anything here they needed to put right.
Both parties have now responded on my provisional decision.  So the matter’s been passed 
back to me to make a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I’m not upholding Ms C’s complaint, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, which I’ve summarised above.
D&G confirmed they accepted my provisional decision.  Ms C asked if D&G would now 
honour the offer they’d made to her in their letter of 4 November to give her a cash 
settlement of £615.00, and re-issue the £10 cheque, which she’d not cashed.
D&G confirmed to me they will still honour that offer and will send Ms C a cheque once the 
complaint is concluded.  So I expect them to do that.  
But, on the basis neither party has made any comments which lead me to change my 
provisional decision, I don’t think D&G need to do anything more in relation to Ms C’s 
complaint to our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m not upholding Ms C’s complaint about Domestic & 
General Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman