DRN-4876873 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs T complains about the settlement paid by esure Insurance Limited when she mad a 
claim on a motor insurance policy. 
What happened 
Mrs T insured a car with esure. She made a claim following a collision and esure said the car 
should be written off. esure made an offer to settle the claim but Mrs T thought this amount 
was too low. She complained to esure, as she was also unhappy about the length of time it 
had taken to speak with esure on the phone.  
esure said it was satisfied its offer to settle the claim was fair, and in line with the market 
value of Mrs T’s car. It offered £50 compensation to recognise the poor service she’d 
received when she phoned.  
Mrs T referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator thought the settlement offered 
by esure was too low, and it should increase the amount it paid. She also said esure should 
pay £100 compensation to recognise this, although its £50 offer for the poor service was fair.  
esure disagreed with our investigator. It considered the additional amount our investigator 
said should be paid to be minimal and in any case its offer was fair. Mrs T also disagreed, as 
she considered it wouldn’t have been possible to purchase a replacement car for the higher 
value our investigator had concluded should form the basis of the settlement. 
As no agreement could be reached, Mrs T’s complaint has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
esure’s settlement of the claim was based on what it said was the “market value” of Mrs T’s 
car at the time of the collision. The market value is defined in the policy as: 
the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open market 
immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is based on cars of 
the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at the time of 
accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides including: Glass's, 
Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you purchased the car. 
esure’s settlement offer to Mrs T was for £4,737. This was the average of the values given 
for Mrs T’s car by three motor trade valuation tools, which were £4,648, £4,580 and £5,003.  
Our service has, in the last 12 months, reviewed the way we think insurers should approach 
settlements based on the market value of cars. Previously, we considered that, unless there 
was compelling evidence to show the tools were wrong, it was generally fair for an insurer to 
make a settlement which was within the range of values given by these tools (once any 

 
 
obvious outliers had been excluded). 
However, considering our duty to reach fair and reasonable outcomes, we’ve changed how 
we think the values given by the tools should be used to calculate a fair market value. This is 
for a number of reasons, including trends in the used car market and consideration of the 
data which is used to reach these values. 
In effect, we now believe that the starting point in establishing a fair market value is the 
highest value given by any of the valuation tools. An insurer should use that as the basis for 
a settlement, unless specific evidence in the form of adverts or similar can be provided to 
show a lower value is enough to allow a replacement vehicle of the same make and model 
of a similar age and condition to be purchased by the policyholder. 
In this case, the highest value given by any valuation tool was £5,003, which is more than 
esure offered in settlement of the claim. It said that the data which supported that higher 
value included adverts for less than £4,737, the amount it offered. I’ve considered whether 
that means the offer it made was fair.  
I don’t think this shows the offer was reasonable, for two main reasons. Firstly, and most 
importantly, those advertised prices went towards calculating a value of £5,003 for the car. If 
esure were to rely on those advertised prices, I’d have to ignore that the same prices went 
towards establishing a higher value for the car. Secondly, the advertised prices contain 
limited information about the cars being sold and don’t, for example, tell us about the 
condition of them. 
I’ve also considered esure’s argument that the increase in the settlement recommended by 
our investigator was relatively minor, of around £250. While I acknowledge this, I do reach a 
conclusion that the settlement offered wasn’t a fair reflection of the market value and that the 
settlement should be increased, even if this is, in percentage terms, a relatively minor 
increase. I have to consider whether the valuation offered was reasonable, and for the 
reasons I’ve given above, I don’t think it was. The amount of the increase isn’t a reason for 
me to say esure did nothing wrong. 
Finally, I’ve considered Mrs T’s argument that even the increased amount being suggested 
doesn’t represent a fair market value, based on advertised prices from the time of the claim. 
However, having said I don’t believe the advertised prices found by esure could reasonably 
be relied on to reduce the settlement, I similarly have to conclude that higher advertised 
prices shouldn’t be relied on to increase the settlement further. I think the fairest way to 
establish the market value of the car is to take the highest value given by the tools, which is 
£5,003. 
For these reasons, I conclude that the fair market value of Mrs T’s car at the time of the 
claim was £5,003. To put things right, esure should make a further settlement to Mrs T for 
the difference between its original calculated value of £4,737 and this value. It should also 
pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of its original settlement to the date of 
final settlement. This is in line with our usual approach where a settlement made by an 
insurer is less than it should have been. 
Our investigator also thought esure should pay £100 compensation in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused by it making an unreasonable settlement offer. I agree 
with this. Mrs T has been caused distress by receiving a settlement for less than she should 
have and has been inconvenienced by having to undertake her own enquiries into the 
possible value of her car. She was also caused inconvenience by having to try and seek a 
replacement car with a settlement that was less than it should reasonably have been. I think 
£100 fairly compensates Mrs T for the avoidable upset caused. 
 
 
Finally, I note esure has offered £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by long wait times when Mrs T phoned it. I think this is a fair offer which properly 
recognises the inconvenience caused by being on the phone for longer than expected to try 
and resolve the claim and that Mrs T would have been distressed by this. 
My final decision 
I uphold Mrs T’s complaint. To put things right, esure Insurance Limited must: 
• Make a further settlement to Mrs T reflecting a market value of £5,003 for her car. It 
must also pay 8% simple interest on this further payment from the date of the original 
settlement to the date of final settlement. 
• Pay £100 compensation to Mrs T. esure must pay this within 28 days of us telling it 
Mrs T accepts our final decision. If it does not, it must pay simple interest at a rate of 
8% on this amount from that date to the date of final settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2024. 
   
Ben Williams 
Ombudsman