DRN-4322763
The complaint
Mrs H complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (“BGI”) and the service she received 
after she made a claim on her HomeCare insurance policy due to an issue with her boiler.
Mrs H has been represented during the claim and complaint process by Mr D. For ease of 
reference, I will refer to any comments made, or actions taken, by either Mrs D or Mrs H as 
“Mrs H” throughout the decision, as she is the policyholder.
What happened
Mrs H held a HomeCare insurance policy, underwritten by BGI. In December 2022, Mrs H 
made a claim on this policy, due to a fault she noticed with her boiler and her heating 
system.
From December 2022 – July 2023, BGI instructed several engineers to attend Mrs H’s 
property to fix several faults found with the heating system. But Mrs H was unhappy with the 
inconvenience she’d been caused during this time, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs H was unhappy with how many engineers had attended her property, without being able 
to complete a full and final repair. And she was unhappy with the service she received 
around this, including the requirement for her to chase BGI for updates. So, she wanted to 
be compensated for the upset and inconvenience she’d been caused. And she wanted BGI 
to cover some of the costs of her gas during this time, as she believed she was told the fault 
was causing more gas to be used over this period.
BGI responded to the complaint and upheld it. They accepted not all of their engineers’ 
attendances may have been as productive as they could’ve been. And they accepted it had 
taken a significant period of time to ensure all of the boiler’s faults had been fixed. So, to 
recognise this and any inconvenience caused to Mrs H, they paid Mrs H a goodwill gesture 
of £400. But they didn’t think they needed to cover any of Mrs H’s gas bills, as they showed 
Mrs H had used less gas in the same time period than she had in the same period the year 
before. So, they didn’t think the boiler fault caused more gas to be used. Mrs H initially 
accepted the £400 payment, but ultimately she remained unhappy. So, she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didn’t uphold it. They thought it was accepted 
by BGI that the service provided to Mrs H during the claim process could’ve been better and, 
that some of the attendances could’ve been prevented. So, they were satisfied BGI had 
acted unfairly.
But our investigator thought the £400 BGI paid was a fair compensatory amount, in line with 
our service’s approach. And they explained they had seen Mrs H’s gas bills during that 
period, in comparison to the year before, and they were satisfied Mrs H had actually used 
less gas, not more. So, they were satisfied the increase in gas bill cost was most likely due 
to rising gas prices, rather than a fault causing more gas to be used. So, our investigator 
didn’t think BGI needed to do anything more.

Mrs H didn’t agree. And she reiterated her belief that the £400 compensation paid wasn’t 
enough to recognise the inconvenience and upset she’d been caused. Mrs H thought 
another £400 payment would be fair compensation and to mediate, our investigator put 
these thoughts to BGI. But BGI didn’t think they should pay anything further and our 
investigators view remained the same. Mrs H continued to disagree and so, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. I’ve focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I haven’t commented 
on any specific point, it’s because I don’t believe it’s affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs H. I appreciate she took 
out the policy with BGI to help assist her, both practically and financially, in situations such 
as the one she found herself in. So, when a full repair of her heating system took longer than 
she expected to be fixed completely, and in that time her gas bills increased, I can 
understand why Mrs H would feel unfairly treated and want to be compensated.
In this situation, I note BGI have already accepted their service fell below the standards 
they’d expect. They have accepted Mrs H received attendances that could’ve been more 
productive, and that ideally some of these attendances could’ve been avoided altogether. 
And they have accepted the additional attendances caused delays in the claim, and Mrs H’s 
heating being fully repaired, which they also accept led her to take time contacting them 
unnecessarily. As these issues aren’t in dispute, I don’t intend to discuss the merits of them 
in any further detail. Instead, I’ve thought about what does remain in dispute, which is what 
BGI should do to reasonably put things right.
BGI have already paid Mrs H £400 to recognise the upset and inconvenience Mrs H has 
been caused. But Mrs H thinks this payment should be doubled, to compensate her fairly. 
So, I’ve thought about what I think BGI should fairly do, considering the payment they’ve 
already made. And having done so, I think the £400 payment is a fair one, that falls in line 
with our service’s approach and what I would’ve directed, had it not already been made. 
I think it adequately compensates Mrs H for the upset and inconvenience she would’ve no 
doubt been caused, needing to co-ordinate multiple attendances to her home when some of 
these weren’t productive and failed to identify, or repair, her heating system faults.
But I think it also takes into consideration the fact that, between December 2022 – July 2023, 
Mrs H had access to heating and hot water for the majority of the time. And, that there were 
periods of time within this time frame where BGI had completed a repair, and no further 
action was needed for more than a month. I think it also reflects BGI’s attempts to ensure an 
adequate repair was completed in good faith, which was shown by their willingness to 
replace the gas valve on three occasions, alongside further diagnostic work, to reflect Mrs 
H’s concerns about noises that weren’t always present when an engineer was at the 
property. 
I’m also unable to say BGI should offer any payment towards Mrs H’s increased gas bills as, 
from what I’ve seen, Mrs H used less gas between December 2022 – July 2023 than she did 
in the same period the year before. So, while I appreciate Mrs H feels she was told by an 
engineer the issue with her gas valve would lead her to use more gas, I don’t think I have 
any evidence that supports this was the case.
So, because of the above, I don’t think I can say BGI should do something more than the 
payment they’ve already made.
I understand this is unlikely to be the outcome Mrs H was hoping for. And I want to reassure 
Mrs H I’ve considered all the comments and representations she’s put forward. And this 
includes her belief the full report of the final attending engineer should be seen and 
considered. 
But I don’t think this is necessary on this occasion, as I’ve seen the notes provided by that 
engineer to BGI and I’m satisfied this is an accurate reflection of the work that was 
completed. And it’s already been accepted by BGI that they could’ve most likely completed 
the relevant repair work sooner and made a payment to reflect this. So, I’m satisfied from all 
the documentation I’ve seen that the £400 payment BGI have offered is a fair one.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I don’t uphold Mrs H’s complaint about British Gas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman