DRN-4230313
The complaint
Mr K complains BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW) irresponsibly entered into two 
hire purchase agreements because it failed to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure the agreement was affordable for him.  
What happened
On 16 August 2019, Mr K entered the first hire purchase agreement with BMW for a used 
car. The total amount payable under the agreement was £29,634.67 (which includes Mr K’s 
initial deposit of £2,000). The cash price was £24,980. There were 48 monthly repayments 
for equal amounts of £354.65 and the APR was 6.9%. There was also an optional final 
repayment of £10,611.47 which included the option to purchase fee. This car was then 
involved in an accident and written off. Mr K settled the agreement through his insurance 
company. 
Mr K went on to enter a second hire purchase agreement on 29 January 2020 for a used 
car. The total amount payable under the agreement was £34,678.33 (including Mr K’s 
deposit of £2,000). The cash price was £28,980. There were 48 monthly repayments for 
equal amounts of £396.65 and the APR was 7%. There was also an optional final repayment 
of £13,639.13 which included the option to purchase fee. This car was also involved in an 
accident and written off. Again, the agreement was settled through Mr K’s insurers.  
Mr K is represented in his complaint but for ease of reading I’ll just refer to Mr K throughout 
this decision. Mr K contacted BMW to complain on 23 March 2022. He complained BMW 
had been irresponsible in providing the finance because they hadn’t carried out appropriate 
checks to ensure Mr K could make the repayments sustainably. 
BMW did not respond to the complaint and Mr K asked our service to investigate. Our 
investigator issued a view explaining why he felt the complaint should be upheld. He said 
proportionate checks hadn’t been carried out because BMW hadn’t done enough to verify Mr 
K’s income and non-discretionary expenditure. Our Investigator also felt that had reasonable 
and proportionate checks been carried out then its likely those checks would have shown 
both agreements weren’t affordable and sustainable for Mr K. 
Mr K accepted the view. However, BMW didn’t. To summarise, it said the following about the 
first agreement: 
Mr K provided his personal details which were provided to the underwriters where no 
flags were identified, and the agreement was auto accepted. 
There were no linked addresses for Mr K on electoral roll and it confirmed he had 
resided at his parents address for nine years. 
There were 3 missed payments on a credit card which were settled in 2017 and this 
wouldn’t have been a cause for concern. 
Mr K had a total available credit limit of £15,000 and his utilisation was only 25%. 
There were no missed payments for this agreement whilst it was active. 

There was a settlement quote of £22,039 and they received a payment of £21,259.21 
leaving a shortfall of £779.70. 
In respect of the second agreement, BMW said: 
There were no linked addresses for Mr K and the electoral roll showed he had been 
at his parents address for four years. Mr K said he had lived there for ten years, and 
no other addresses were provided. 
There were 3 missed payments on a credit card which were settled in 2017 and this 
wouldn’t have been a cause for concern. 
Mr K had £43,000 of total credit available, and his utilisation was 31% at the time the 
agreement was taken out. The credit card commitments also showed as having 
increased but based on all the information it was satisfied it could approve the 
agreement. 
The agreement was auto accepted and there were no missed payments whilst the 
agreement was active and nothing to indicate financial difficulty. 
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customer’s ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customer’s financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did BMW complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr K would be 
able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way? 
In respect of the first agreement, BMW said it reviewed the credit history which showed three 
missed payments on a credit card which had been settled in 2017. It also said all other credit 
cards were showing as up to date on the credit check and the total amount of credit Mr K 
was utilising was around 25% of his total available credit of £15,000. BMW said there was no 
evidence of any linked addresses and Mr K confirmed he had resided at his parents address 
for nine years. 
In respect of the second agreement, BMW said it reviewed the credit history and found Mr 
K’s total amount of available credit increased to £43,000. But he was only utilising 31% of it 
at the time of the agreement. It confirmed the same information previously obtained about Mr 
K’s living arrangements and the missed payment information from 2017. It also said no 
payments were missed on the first agreement, which indicated there hadn’t been any 
financial difficulties. 
I’ve seen a copy of the credit search which took place for each agreement. However, I also 
note there was a default recorded on the search at the time of entering the second 
agreement. Whilst the search showed the credit utilisation was fairly low at the time of the 
lending, it also showed prior to the lending it had been higher. For the first agreement, credit 
utilisation had reached 51% and for the second it had been 98% at its highest. This 
represented a fair amount of credit usage which was increasing. 
I note our Investigator found BMW should have verified income and expenditure. BMW don’t 
seem to have done much beyond the credit search to estimate or consider Mr K’s non-
discretionary spend. BMW has said no flags were identified by the underwriters regarding 
the information Mr K provided about his income, employment and living arrangements. 
Whilst a credit search does provide information about current credit commitments, it tells 
lenders little about what other non-discretionary spend a consumer might have. Additionally, 
it doesn’t seem to have taken steps to verify Mr K’s income. I can’t see how BMW could 
have made a fair assessment about whether this agreement could be sustainably repaid 
without carrying out further checks in respect of income and expenditure. I’m also mindful 
that affordability checks should be borrower-focussed. So, I’m unable to conclude they were 
in the circumstances here.  
Having considered the circumstances, I’m not satisfied reasonable or proportionate checks 
were carried out for either agreement. I appreciate BMW undertook a credit search. 
However, I don’t think this was sufficient to show the agreement could be repaid sustainably. 
I note the total amount payable was significant and the duration of the agreement was also 
fairly long. Additionally, BMW did have some adverse information about Mr K’s financial 
circumstances. In particular, there was a default recorded at the time of entering the second 
agreement. I’m also mindful of Mr K’s other credit commitments and the total amount of 
available credit. Although I appreciate Mr K didn’t have very high utilisation at the time of the 
lending, the search does show it had been higher. 
With these factors in mind, I’m of the view BMW should have done more to check Mr K’s 
specific financial circumstances. I think in the circumstances outlined above, it would have 
been proportionate to carry out further checks in respect of income and expenditure. This 
would have been proportionate as it would have enabled BMW to make a fair assessment 
about whether Mr K could sustainably repay the agreements. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown Mr K would be able to repay the 
agreement sustainably? 
As I don’t think reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out for these agreements, 
I need to consider what such checks would likely have shown. To do this, I’ve considered the 
bank statements Mr K has provided for the period leading up to each lending decision. This 
includes statements covering July to December 2019, as well as a statement covering May 
2019. For clarity, I’m not saying BMW needed to obtain the bank statements in order for its 
checks to be proportionate. However, I’m satisfied these bank statements and the period 
they cover contain information BMW would likely have seen had it carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks. 
I note BMW have said Mr K should have disclosed information about his financial 
circumstances at the time. I do understand what BMW says here, however it doesn’t mean 
BMW shouldn’t have carried out the appropriate checks. 
I’ll take each agreement in turn. 
August 2019 
Having considered the bank statements, I can see Mr K received an average income of 
around £2,243. I can see he received a large payment into his account of around £14,469 in 
May 2019. Mr K has confirmed this was a loan and I can see he used it to reduce the 
balances on some of his credit cards. 
I’ve also thought about his non-discretionary spending. This included things such as gym 
membership, vehicle tax and phone bill. Having thought about these expenses, I’ve 
calculated his non-discretionary spend for living expenses as around £912. 
I’ve also thought about Mr K’s credit commitments at the time of the lending decision. I 
acknowledge some of the credit commitments which are shown on Mr K’s statements aren’t 
on the search obtained by BMW. However, I have already explained why I think further 
checks were necessary and I’m satisfied had reasonable and proportionate checks been 
carried out then its likely such checks would have highlighted just how much Mr K was 
paying towards his credit commitments.  
The bank statements show Mr K paid varying amounts towards his credit cards. So, I’ve 
excluded May 2019 when considering Mr K’s credit commitments because he made 
significantly higher repayments after he took out a loan. I also understand what BMW have 
said about Mr K’s living arrangements. However, I’m satisfied proportionate checks were 
likely to have highlighted Mr K’s payments towards his own home as well as other credit 
commitments.
 
Overall, it seems Mr K had credit commitments of around £1,413. This included things like 
overdraft fees, loan repayments, mortgage and credit card payments. I do have some 
information about Mr K’s credit card balances. I’ve considered what Mr K was paying 
towards the balances and what was likely to be a sustainable monthly repayment amount. In 
any event, a large proportion of his credit commitments went towards repaying loans.  For 
example, he had loan repayments of £402, £281 and £185 and this was on top of his 
mortgage payments of £356.
Therefore, taking into account everything I’ve seen about Mr K’s financial circumstances at 
the time I don’t think reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown this 
agreement was affordable for him. The information shows he was paying around £2,325 just 
to meet his existing commitments and non-discretionary spend. As his income averaged 
around £2,243, he didn’t have sufficient disposable income to meet the repayments under 
the agreement.
For the reasons outlined above, I’m not persuaded reasonable and proportionate checks 
were likely to have shown this agreement was affordable. I’ll come back to how things 
should be put right below.   
 
January 2020  
Leading up to this agreement, Mr K had an average income of around £2,373. His non-
discretionary spend was around £1,017. This included things like petrol, food and car 
insurance. The amount he was paying towards his credit commitments had increased. I’d 
reiterate that I think Mr K’s financial commitments would have come to light had BMW 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
According to Mr K’s statements, he was putting around £1,612 towards his credit 
commitments. This includes repayments towards Mr K’s credit cards, loans and mortgage. 
As well as some overdraft fees. I have been provided with information about Mr K’s credit 
balances from BMW and the search completed at the time. I’ve taken into consideration a 
sustainable repayment amount, as well as what Mr K was actually paying. Notwithstanding 
this, a large proportion of his commitments went towards fixed loan repayments and his 
mortgage repayment. He also incurred overdraft fees. 
Therefore, taking everything into account, I’m satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks 
were likely to have shown this agreement wasn’t affordable. Mr K had an average income of 
around £2,373 and his average outgoings for non-discretionary spend and credit 
commitments were around £2,629. So, he already had commitments exceeding his income 
before taking into account the repayments under the agreement. Overall, I think had BMW 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks its likely such checks would have shown 
this agreement wasn’t affordable and it shouldn’t have been entered in to. 
Putting things right
There isn’t an exact formula for working out what fair usage should be. However, in deciding 
what’s fair and reasonable, I’ve thought about the amount of interest that was charged under 
the agreement, the usage Mr K likely had of the car and what his costs to stay mobile might 
have been if he didn’t have his car. 
In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr K should pay is £300 for each month he had use of the 
car for the first agreement and also £300 for each month he had the car for the second 
agreement. This means BMW can only ask him to repay a total of £1,500 for the first 
agreement and £5,400 for the second agreement. 
BMW have told us there was a shortfall of around £780 between the settlement value and 
the amount actually paid out by Mr K’s insurer under the first agreement. However, it 
wouldn’t now be fair for Mr K to bear the cost of this shortfall. Mr K no longer has possession 
of the vehicle and had he been, I might have concluded he should return it to BMW. BMW 
would then need to deduct fair usage from the amount Mr K had paid. BMW would go on to 
sell the vehicle with no guarantee of it achieving a higher price than the insurance 
settlement. I’m also mindful Mr K went on to enter into a second agreement without settling 
the shortfall and as time has now passed it doesn’t seem fair to factor the shortfall into the 
redress calculations. This means BMW should not include the shortfall in the calculations set 
out below. 
BMW have also explained the settlement figure already took into account money paid by Mr 
K and so it would be at a greater loss if it is asked to refund the deposits for each 
agreement. However, I’m mindful this is credit which should not have been extended to Mr 
K. I’ve taken into consideration what position Mr K would likely now be in had the lending not 
been granted. I’ve also taken into account what’s fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances to decide how things should be put right. 
To settle Mr K’s complaint BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited should:
1. Refund the deposit for the first agreement, adding 8% simple interest per year* from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
2. Calculate how much Mr K has paid in total for the first agreement and deduct £1,500 
for fair usage. If Mr K has paid more than the fair usage figure, BMW should refund 
any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement. 
3. Refund the deposit for the second agreement, adding 8% simple interest per year* 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
4. Calculate how much Mr K has paid in total for the second agreement and deduct 
£5,400 for fair usage. If Mr K has paid more than the fair usage figure, BMW should 
refund any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
5. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr K’s credit file regarding the 
agreement. 
*If BMW considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr K how much it’s taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I’m upholding this complaint and BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited should put things right in the way described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2024.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman