DRN-4798795 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society rejected his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to an air source heating system. 
What happened 
In 2022 Mr B bought an air source heating system for his home, and paid a third party over 
£14,000 to supply and install it. He paid for nearly two thirds of that from his current account, 
in February and March 2022, and about one third remained outstanding. The system was 
installed in April and May. 
 
Mr B complained to the retailer that the system which was installed did not meet the 
specifications of the system he had contracted to buy. He said the contract had stipulated a 
16.5 kW system, but the system that was installed was only 12.5 kW. He said the retailer 
was therefore in breach of contract. 
 
In June 2022 the manufacturer carried out a site visit, and its engineer agreed that the 
system installed was 12.5 kW, but he also said that this was the right size for the premises. 
As the manufacturer also found that the system had nothing wrong with it and was 
performing correctly, the retailer did not agree to do anything. It demanded payment of the 
remaining balance, and in August 2022 Mr B paid using his Nationwide credit card. He then 
asked Nationwide to refund him the whole purchase price. He said that the system fails to 
keep the house warm, even when the heating is on all the time. 
 
Nationwide both raised a chargeback dispute and opened a claim under section 75. The 
chargeback was unsuccessful (but that is not part of this complaint).1 Nationwide asked Mr B 
to obtain an independent report about the heating system to support his section 75 claim. 
That report was obtained in October 2023. It found a number of shortcomings with the 
installation work (for example, holes drilled in the walls were allowing water ingress and 
allowing heat to escape, because they had not been made good). But notwithstanding what 
that report said, Nationwide did not uphold Mr B’s section 75 claim. It said that the units were 
operating correctly. That was in October 2023. 
 
Mr B then brought this complaint to our service. He asked for the contract to be unwound for 
a full refund. He also said that the installers had drilled a hole through a lintel, which had 
caused it to crack; he asked for compensation for that. 
 
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said (among other things) that the 16.5 
kW system did not appear to have been available at the time of installation, so the retailer 
could not be expected to supply it. The house was not properly insulated, which was not the 
retailer’s fault. She concluded that there had been no breach of contract and no 
misrepresentation. 
 
Mr B did not accept that opinion, and he asked for an ombudsman’s decision. I wrote a 
 
1 Our investigator decided that our service did not have jurisdiction to consider the chargeback 
dispute, and Mr B has accepted that decision, so I need not reconsider it here. 

 
 
provisional decision, which read as follows. 
My first provisional decision 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I am minded to uphold it. I will explain why. 
 
Breach of contract 
 
It is not in dispute (but I have verified anyway) that Mr B ordered a 16.5 kW system, but a 
12.5 kW system was installed instead. That is a clear breach of contract, so Mr B is entitled 
to have his section 75 claim upheld. If the 16.5 kW system was no longer available, then the 
retailer was obliged to say so, and to try to agree a new contract with Mr B if it wanted to 
make a sale. It couldn’t just substitute something else unilaterally. The fact that the installed 
system has no manufacturing faults and that it works is neither here nor there. 
 
It also appears that a lintel has cracked as a result of having a hole drilled through it. I think 
that is a breach of the statutory implied term that the installation would be carried out with 
reasonable care and skill. 
 
The only question which remains is what would be a fair remedy for those breaches. 
 
Fair compensation 
 
Mr B has asked for the contract to be unwound and to get all of his money back. This would 
mean removing the entire system. That is my starting point, but I have to consider whether it 
would be fair and proportionate to require that to be done, or whether some other remedy 
should be substituted. 
 
Since I have found a breach of an express term of the contract, I don’t strictly need to 
consider whether there has also been a breach of any implied terms (such as the statutory 
term that the installation has to be carried out with reasonable skill and care). But I have still 
considered the findings in the independent report in the context of deciding whether it is 
desirable to replace the system or to keep it in place and find some other remedy. 
 
(To understand the report, it is necessary to know that there are six internal heaters and an 
external heat pump.) 
 
Although the independent report found no manufacturing faults, it did still identify a number 
of problems. These were as follows: 
• The holes drilled for the pipes which connect the heat pump to the system inside the 
house had not been made good. This meant they were allowing heat to escape 
through the gaps around the pipes, and also rainwater ingress, which Mr B says has 
caused mould. 
• The external pipes were not adequately insulated and so they were losing a lot of 
heat. 
• The air source heat pump had been installed on the north wall, but the south wall 
would have been preferable. 
• Although the system was actually capable of providing 16 kW (how this is possible 
was not explained), this was still not enough to adequately warm the house, as the 
system was “30% undersized.” This was due to two factors: heat loss from the 
property, and the heat pump’s capacity being lower than the internal units required. 
While there was nothing wrong with the internal units themselves, they were not able 
 
 
to perform properly because of those factors. 
• Six internal units were being used to heat eight rooms, further undermining their 
collective performance. 
• Mr B’s electricity supply was inadequate to meet the system’s energy needs. 
• The manufacturer had carried out its own test in warm summer weather. This was 
not a reliable indicator of how well the system would work in winter. 
• Although the air at ceiling height was very warm, the rest of the rooms were not. Wall 
hung internal units may therefore not have been the best solution (especially 
considering heat loss via the roof). 
 
The report made the following recommendations: 
• The manufacturer should conduct another test in winter. 
• More insulation should be added to the house’s roof and walls. 
• The wall-hung units should be changed to floor-mounted units. 
• Alternatively, add another heat pump (but this would require planning permission and 
an upgraded electricity supply). 
• Alternatively, either replace the entire system, or add a fossil fuel boiler and radiators 
to the existing system. 
 
Clearly, not all of those things are the installer’s fault, although just as clearly some of them 
are. But I don’t need to specify which ones the installer is responsible for. It is enough to say 
that I don’t see any advantage in keeping the system in place and just refunding some of the 
cost. I think it would be reasonable to say that the whole system needs to be removed for a 
full refund, and to make good where needed. 
 
The lintel will need to be repaired at no cost to Mr B. Alternatively, Mr B can obtain a 
reasonable quote for those repairs to be done, and Nationwide can pay him what it will cost. 
(I have seen a quote from March 2024 for £9,905 plus VAT, but that quote has expired, and 
it seems very steep. A simple internet search suggests that the work could be done much 
more cheaply. So I encourage Mr B to obtain a quote from somebody else.) 
 
Mr B says four lintels have been damaged, but I have only seen evidence of one. He will 
need to provide evidence of the others. 
 
My provisional decision 
 
I am currently minded to uphold this complaint and to order Nationwide Building Society to: 
• Arrange for the system to be removed from Mr B’s property, and the premises made 
good, at no cost to him; 
• Arrange for the lintel to be repaired (or replaced) at no cost to Mr B; or alternatively, 
on the receipt of a reasonable and up to date quote from a third party for this work, to 
pay Mr B the amount quoted; 
• Refund the cost of the system (£14,391:38), plus interest on that refund at the rate of 
8% a year from the dates that the payments were made to the date of settlement; 
• Pay Mr B a further £1,000 for his inconvenience. 
 
Responses to my first provisional decision 
 
Nationwide did not accept my provisional findings. It insisted that the system was working as 
it should, and so there had been no breach of contract by the retailer. As to the fact that Mr B 
had contracted to buy a 16.5 kW system but the retailer had installed a 12.5 kW system 
instead, Nationwide submitted that the power output of the system had not been the subject 
of pre-contract negotiations. In support of this, Nationwide referred to the sales documents. 
Nationwide also asked me to consider the manufacturer’s report (which I had already 
 
 
referred to in my provisional decision), which says that the system was performing 
adequately. Nationwide also referred to a letter from the retailer (dated September 2022) 
explaining that they had attended the site several times to rectify some minor issues, and 
that they had not heard again from Mr B since he paid the outstanding balance of the 
purchase price. And Nationwide reminded me of a letter from the retailer’s solicitor about the 
power output of the system. 
 
Nationwide did not specifically address the findings in the independent report from October 
2023. 
 
Mr B provided more photos of the property, including pictures of the other lintels showing 
some hairline cracks. I couldn’t tell if these were really cracks in the lintels or just cracks in 
the paintwork, so I asked him to remove some paint with a screwdriver and take photos of 
what is underneath, which he did. Those new photos show cracks in the lintels, underneath 
the paint. (I will share these photos with Nationwide.) 
 
Mr B also provided a new quote from a builder’s firm, dated 26 August 2024, which was 
slightly cheaper than the previous one (by £365),2 and which also included figures for 
investigating and (if necessary) replacing the three other lintels. 
 
He also asked to be compensated for furniture, clothes and toys which had been damaged 
by water ingress and mould over the last two years, and which his home insurance company 
had refused to cover. He said that Nationwide had told him that any action he took to protect 
his property could adversely affect his claim, because the retailer might wish to inspect the 
site. So he had taken no action since August 2022. 
 
Mr B also said that he had ordered a heating system, but he has since been told that the 
system actually installed is really an air conditioning system. 
 
My revised provisional findings 
 
The lintels 
 
Based on the new photos supplied by Mr B, I now accept that all four lintels have cracked. 
On the balance of probabilities, I think this is the result of poor installation work that was not 
carried out with reasonable skill and care, since the cracks run from holes drilled during the 
installation. So I find that this was a breach of contract by the retailer, and that Nationwide 
should pay for the four lintels to be replaced. 
 
The latest quote is for £26,300 plus VAT to replace the four lintels. (That quote recently 
expired, so that figure is now approximate, but I expect any revised quote will be for a similar 
amount.) 
 
The heating system 
 
As I said before, the manufacturer’s report found that there were no manufacturing faults 
with the system. However, the report also states that a 12.5 kW system had been installed. 
Yet Mr B’s quotation from the retailer (dated 19 February 2022) was unequivocally for a 16.5 
kW system. In this excerpt, the column on the right is the quantity of units: 
 
 
2 [New footnote added in final decision:] When I wrote this sentence, I did not include the cost of 
dismantling and replacing the conservatory (as to which see page 6). 
 
 
 
 
It is immaterial what else was said in the pre-contract negotiations, because I think that the 
written itemisation of what would be provided formed an express term of the contract. So I 
remain of the view that there was a breach of an express term to provide a 16.5 kW system, 
consisting of three 3 kW units and three 2.5 kW units. What was actually provided instead, 
according to the manufacturer’s report, was a 12.5 kW system. This was made up of four 
units of one kind, and two units of another kind, but the report does not specifically say how 
powerful each kind of unit was. (I will come back to that in a moment.) 
 
However, the retailer’s solicitor claims (based on information taken from the retailer’s 
website) that the system actually installed consisted of four 3.2 kW units and two 4 kW units, 
which adds up to 20.8 kW, exceeding what was stated in the contract. Of course, that 
conclusion contradicts both reports. Since the manufacturer’s report was based on a site 
visit, and since I would expect the manufacturer to understand its own product, I prefer the 
manufacturer’s findings to the solicitor’s conclusions. 
 
The manufacturer’s website provides further information, which I’ve shared with Nationwide. 
Cross-referencing that with the manufacturer’s report sheds some further light on the report. 
I won’t go into much detail here (to avoid identifying the manufacturer in a published 
decision). But it seems clear to me that the system installed consists of a 12.5 kW outdoor 
heat pump, four 2.03 kW indoor units, and two 2.69 kW indoor units. (The six indoor units 
add up to 13.5 kW.) The website specifically identifies this combination of units as having a 
total capacity of 13.5 kW. 
 
Based on this evidence, I remain of the view that the system that was installed was not the 
system that was ordered and paid for, and that this amounts to a breach of an express term 
of the contract. And I remain of the view that removing the system and making good the 
premises is a fair remedy. 
 
Heating or air conditioning? 
 
Before I move on, I will deal with Mr B’s point about what kind of system this is, although I 
don’t really need to because my findings above make this a moot point. Both versions of the 
retailer’s quotation (dated December 2021 and February 2022) describe it as an “air source 
heating system.” The 2022 quote also calls it a “multi split systems air conditioner 5-6 
rooms”. Then on the next page, both documents say: 
 
“It heats your home by extracting the renewable energy that's in the air outside and 
then converts this heat into warm air for distribution around your property. As an 
added benefit it can also act as an air cooler during the warmer summer months, 
improving comfort.” 
 
So the system is both a heating system and an air conditioner, and was described as such 
before Mr B ordered it. I do not uphold his complaint about that. 
 
Damage to clothes and furniture 
 
I can understand why Mr B took no immediate action to protect his property when he was 
told that the retailer might need to carry out a site inspection. But I don’t think that fully 
explains why he took no action for more than a year after that, if he noticed that clothes and 
furniture were beginning to be affected by moisture. I think it ought to have become apparent 

 
 
much earlier than that, that the retailer was not going to carry out a site visit after all. (And 
there had already been an inspection by the manufacturer.) So I think that Mr B should have 
taken steps to mitigate his loss much earlier than he did. For that reason, I do not think that I 
can fairly tell Nationwide to reimburse Mr B for these items. 
 
My second provisional decision 
 
My provisional decision is that I am minded to uphold this complaint, and to order Nationwide 
Building Society to: 
• Arrange for the system to be removed from Mr B’s property, and the premises made 
good, at no cost to him; 
• Arrange for the four lintels to be repaired or replaced at no cost to Mr B; or 
alternatively, on the receipt of a reasonable and up to date quote from a third party 
for this work, to pay Mr B the amount quoted; 
• Refund the cost of the system (£14,391:38), plus interest on that refund at the rate of 
8% a year from the dates that the payments were made to the date of settlement; 
and 
• Pay Mr B a further £1,000 for his inconvenience. 
 
Responses to my second provisional decision 
 
Mr B said that as well as the cost of replacing the lintels, his builder had also quoted £15,000 
plus VAT to remove his conservatory and then to supply and build a replacement. That was 
necessary because the conservatory was in the way of where the builder’s scaffolding would 
need to go, and it would be impossible to remove the lintels, or to erect scaffolding, with the 
conservatory in the way. Including that, the latest quote (including VAT) comes to £49,560 
altogether. I shared this with Nationwide. 
 
Mr B also asked to be refunded for some steps he had taken to mitigate his losses, such as 
buying electric heaters and the associated increase in his electricity bills, and the cost of coal 
and firelighters. And he asked for the cost of the independent report, which was £450, and 
also for the cost of removing refrigerant from the system (£336), which he said was 
necessary to make it legally safe. He provided receipts. He also reiterated what he had said 
about consequential losses to clothes and furniture, and he asked for £80,000 for that. 
 
I asked Nationwide to comment about the cost of dismantling and rebuilding the 
conservatory. In response to that and to my provisional decision, Nationwide said that there 
was still not enough evidence that the lintels had been damaged, or that any damage had 
been caused by the installers of the heating system. It suggested that an independent 
builder’s report should be obtained. 
 
Nationwide also argued that building a new conservatory for Mr B would leave him in a 
better position than before he entered into the contract; it asked me to consider apportioning 
the amount.3 Nationwide also pointed out that the quote mentioned removing kitchen units 
and surfaces and then reinstating them, and it made similar points about this to what it had 
said about the conservatory. (However I note that the quote does not say that the kitchen 
components will be replaced with new ones.) 
 
Mr B pointed out that his position would not really be bettered if this work was carried out, 
because he had been living in a cold house for two and a half years; his health had suffered 
as a result of the ongoing stress; and (as mentioned earlier) there had been damage to 
clothes and furniture caused by damp and mould. He has also had to pay to heat the house 
 
3 The quote says “Removal of existing conservatory along with cart away all waste material. Supply & 
fit new conservatory to match existing.” 
 
 
by other means. 
My findings 
I disagree with Nationwide about the sufficiency of the evidence to show that the lintels were 
all damaged and that the damage was caused by the installation work being carried out 
without reasonable skill and care. As I said in my last decision, the cracks run from holes 
drilled during the installation. I have not changed my mind about the need for this work to be 
done, and about who is liable. 
 
I now turn to the conservatory. While I do take Nationwide’s point about Mr B ending up with 
a new conservatory which (although it will be like-for-like) will be in better condition than the 
original, I think that cannot be helped, as the remedial work simply cannot be performed 
otherwise. I have considered Nationwide’s alternative argument – that I should apportion the 
cost of the conservatory between Nationwide and Mr B. It’s not an unreasonable thing for 
Nationwide to ask for. But on further reflection, I am not persuaded that I should do that. Mr 
B did not ask for a new conservatory; he was happy enough with the old one, and there is no 
evidence that he would have had it replaced either by now or in the future. This is only 
having to happen because of the need to replace the damaged lintels. His home will become 
a building site for a significant period of time, and part of that time will consist of taking down 
a conservatory, and then some more time building a new one, which will not be an 
inconsiderable interruption of his domestic life. It now looks as though the work will have to 
be carried out in the winter. So I think that requiring him to pay towards the new 
conservatory would be rather like adding insult to injury. 
 
It will be necessary to remove some kitchen units and surfaces to access the lintels, and 
then put them back again, but unlike the conservatory the quote does not suggest that these 
will be replaced with new ones. 
 
For all of those reasons, I do not think it would be fair of me to expect Mr B to foot the bill for 
any portion of the remedial work. 
 
Turning to Mr B’s latest points, I have not changed my mind about the consequential 
damage caused by damp. I remain of the view expressed in my second provisional decision. 
 
If Mr B had not had the heating system installed, he would still have had to pay for heating in 
some other form, so I do not propose to require Nationwide to pay for portable electric 
heaters or for coal and so on. 
 
I’ve seen evidence that Mr B paid £450 to get the independent report. I consider that the 
report was absolutely essential to his case, and to the fair resolution of this complaint, so he 
should have that reimbursed. 
 
I don’t know that the system contravened any law that made the removal of refrigerant 
essential, or (if that was indeed the case) that Mr B would have been personally liable for it 
(rather than the retailer). All I’ve seen evidence of is that (but for the removal) there would 
have had to have been annual refrigerant leak checks, and a third party consulted by Mr B 
told him it had received legal advice to the effect that no offence had been committed. I don’t 
know what the annual checks would have cost, or whether it was cheaper for Mr B to pay 
£336 to remove that liability. So I have not required Nationwide to pay for that. 
 
Although I accept that this matter has been stressful for Mr B, it’s not possible for me to 
determine to what extent this caused or contributed to the health issues he has told me 
about or whether they would still have happened anyway. I think the same thing about the 
time he took off work. I also have to consider that such losses would need to be foreseeable 
 
 
by the retailer at the time of installation. So I do not award compensation for those issues 
(except to the extent that I have already taken his health into account as evidence of his 
vulnerability in deciding to award him £1,000 for his distress and inconvenience). 
 
My final decision 
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Nationwide Building Society to: 
• Arrange for the system to be removed from Mr B’s property, and the premises made 
good, at no cost to him (and if the retailer will not co-operate then Nationwide 
Building Society must arrange for another qualified party to do it); 
• Arrange for the four lintels to be repaired or replaced at no cost to Mr B; or 
alternatively, pay Mr B £49,560; 
• Refund the cost of the system (£14,391:38), plus interest on that refund at the rate of 
8% a year from the dates that the relevant payments were made to the date of 
settlement; 
• Pay Mr B £450 for the cost of obtaining the independent report, with interest on that 
refund at the rate of 8% a year from 16 November 2022 to the date of settlement; 
and 
• Pay Mr B a further £1,000 for his inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2024. But apart from that, this final decision brings 
this service’s involvement in this complaint to an end. 
   
Richard Wood 
Ombudsman