DRN-4763945
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the service received from Aviva Insurance Limited after making a 
claim on the private medical insurance policy (‘the policy’) she has the benefit of.
What happened
Mrs R made a claim for mental health treatment under the policy. Mrs R is unhappy with the 
service received from certain therapists, including one therapist not contacting her to start 
her online appointment, then being charged a fee by the independent third-party provider for 
missing the appointment and saying that she couldn’t continue with any treatment until the 
fee was paid by her. 
That fee was eventually set aside by the independent third-party provider, but Mrs R is 
unhappy with the overall way she was treated by them and Aviva. She complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and partially upheld her complaint. She 
concluded that we can’t consider concerns raised about the independent third-party provider, 
but she did recommend that Aviva pay £75 compensation for when she felt Aviva ought to 
have communicated better with Mrs R.
Aviva accepted the recommendation. Mrs R asked for an Ombudsman’s decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has an obligation to treat customers fairly. 
When making a claim for a mental health condition under the policy, Mrs R is directed to 
contact Aviva and its independent mental health provider would arrange the most 
appropriate treatment for her. 
I know Mrs R is unhappy with the service she received from the independent third-party 
provider. However, I don’t have the power to consider the concerns she’s raised about them, 
or the individual therapists engaged to provide professional services to her. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, I’m satisfied that those aren’t concerns about Aviva carrying 
out the contract of insurance. And Aviva’s obligations were complete as soon as access to 
the benefit under the policy had been given to her and the independent third-party provider 
arranged for Mrs R to see the clinician.
I’ve focussed on whether Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which it 
managed the claim, as opposed to the actions of the independent third-party provider.
In Aviva’s communication dated June 2023, it explained that the independent third-party 
provider contacted Mrs R to ask if she would like to continue with her therapist or be 

reallocated. And as they didn’t receive a reply, the therapist contacted her to book an 
appointment. It said: “please accept my sincerest apologies for how this made you feel but 
please be reassured that should you wish to continue your treatment and reallocate to 
another therapist, you can contact [the independent third-party provider] and they will 
endeavour to accommodate you”.
Mrs R responded a few days later, setting out her concerns in greater detail as she didn’t 
think they had been properly addressed. She listed a number of points. I’ll refer to this as 
“Mrs R’s correspondence”. 
Towards the end of Mrs R’s correspondence, she says that Aviva “asking me to get involved 
again with the people who nearly tipped me over the edge because of endless failings and 
incompetencies” was unfair. And that “I gave them multiple chances to put right their wrongs 
and they just continued to fail every time. I just cannot put myself at that much risk with how 
fragile I am. I look forward to hearing from you”. 
Aviva responded in August 2023 to say that it had cross referred the points raised in her 
correspondence and felt that it had responded to all the points raised. And that it had nothing 
further to add.
Mrs R told our investigator in September 2023 that “I wasn’t offered any alternatives or 
advised of my options, they’ve just left me dangling, stating my case is with the 
Ombudsman. Under the circumstances I would have thought that at the very least they 
would have explained my options e.g. another supplier, financial assistance if I wanted to 
appoint my own clinician…etc but I’ve heard nothing from them so I’ve been in limbo not 
knowing how to proceed whilst waiting for yourselves to review my case”.
Whilst I’m satisfied that under the policy, it was reasonable for Aviva to direct Mrs R back to 
the independent third -party provider if she wanted to continue with her treatment, I think it 
also reasonably ought to have responded to Mrs R’s correspondence to reiterate that this 
route was available to her if she wanted to continue with treatment. I’m satisfied, by not 
responding, Mrs R was kept in limbo, as she says. And I’m satisfied this caused 
unnecessary upset and uncertainty at an already difficult time for her when she was 
vulnerable. I think £75 compensation fairly compensates her for this distress. 
Other than this, I’m satisfied that Aviva has acted overall fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mrs R and the handling of her claim in respect of the issues I have the power to 
consider in respect of the concerns Mrs R has brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mrs R’s complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay her £75 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2024.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman