DRN-5248122 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd was irresponsible in its lending to him. 
What happened 
Mr P was provided with a credit card by NewDay in 2019. The credit limit was increased on 
several occasions between October 2019 and December 2022, with the final credit limit set 
at £6,600. Mr P said that the credit card account shouldn’t have been provided. He said he 
was declared bankrupt in September 2015, and this was discharged a year later. 
NewDay issued a final response dated 23 July 2024. It said it carried out comprehensive 
affordability assessments before lending which included considering data provided by Mr P 
in his application along with data from the credit reference agencies and other internal 
sources. It said when the credit card was provided, Mr P declared an annual income of 
£65,000. It said the credit check didn’t raise concerns and it identified that Mr P had 
sufficient disposable income to meet the repayments. It said further checks were undertaken 
before each credit limit increase.  
NewDay thought the checks it carried out before the credit card account was provided and 
credit limit increases were applied were proportionate. However, it noted the additional 
information Mr P had provided and that his circumstances changed around November 2023. 
Therefore, it upheld his complaint from this date. However, it said that no refund was due as 
Mr P hadn’t been charged any fees or proportionate interest from that point.  
Mr P referred his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator thought the checks undertaken before the first four credit limit increases 
were applied were proportionate but that further checks should have happened before the 
subsequent increases. He considered what proportionate checks would have identified. He 
thought these would have shown that the sixth and seventh limit increases shouldn’t have 
happened. Therefore, he upheld this complaint from the credit limit increase in July 2022 to 
£6,250.  
NewDay agreed with our investigator’s view. It calculated the amount that would be due to 
Mr P and said that as Mr P still had an outstanding balance the refund would be applied to 
this to reduce it. It said it would go through Mr P’s income and expenditure with him to set up 
an affordable repayment plan. I note that a payment had been missed in December 2024. 
Mr P explained that the current repayment plan wasn’t affordable for him, and he only 
entered into this to avoid his account being defaulted. He said he had informed NewDay that 
he would pay £5 towards his account. NewDay responded to this saying that a new income 
and expenditure assessment would need to take place before any new payment 
arrangement was accepted. NewDay said the quickest way for this to happen would be for 
Mr P to call but as he didn’t wish to do this it said that an income and expenditure form would 
be posted to him.  
Our investigator reassessed Mr P’s complaint in regard to the awarding of compensation for 

 
 
distress and inconvenience he had been caused. He thought that Mr P was caused stress by 
the additional credit being provided to him when this wasn’t affordable. He considered the 
period between the credit limit increases that he upheld (July 2022) to when the final 
response was issued in July 2024 and thought that £250 compensation was fair. Mr P 
agreed with this. NewDay didn’t believe that compensation was warranted in this case. 
So, while it has been agreed that the complaint be upheld from the credit limit increase in 
July 2022, as the issue of compensation hasn’t been agreed this complaint has been passed 
to me, an ombudsman, to issue a decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending – including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice – is set out on our website. 
The rules don’t set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to 
carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, and the 
total cost of the credit. 
Our investigator upheld this complaint from the credit limit increase in July 2022. Having 
looked through the information provided I find this outcome reasonable. I say this because 
having considered the information available before the previous lending decisions, this didn’t 
raise concerns about how Mr P was managing this account or his other credit commitments. 
So, while I agree that further checks should have happened before the limit increased in July 
2021, I don’t think that the information obtained at the time suggested the lending would be 
unaffordable for Mr P.  
 
Mr P’s financial situation then changed, and his debts increased. Taking into account the 
cost for his credit commitments alongside his other housing and living costs, I think NewDay 
should have been concerned that providing further credit wouldn’t be sustainably affordable 
for him. Therefore, I agree with our investigator’s view that the credit limits applied from July 
2022 weren’t responsible. I note this outcome has been agreed by both parties and NewDay 
has provided information in regard to the resulting settlement. 
 
Following the acceptance of the view by NewDay, Mr P asked that the refunds be made and 
he be provided with a statement showing this. He also asked for an affordable monthly 
repayment plan to be set up. NewDay provided a statement of the refund due and said this 
would be made once the complaint had been closed. I find this response was reasonable as 
it provided Mr P with the information he needed about the amount he would be refunded but 
explained the usual process in regard to when the refund would be applied. 
 
NewDay noted thar Mr P had a payment arrangement in place for £71.64 a month and he 
had missed his December 2024 payment. Mr P explained that the payment arrangement 
wasn’t affordable for him and he stated the amount he could afford. Mr P noted that our 
investigator’s view said that an affordable repayment plan should be put in place for the 
outstanding balance. Our investigator put Mr P’s concerns to NewDay which said that as 
more than six months had passed since the payment arrangement was set up and Mr P said 
the amount due under that arrangement was unaffordable it would need to carry out a new 
income and expenditure assessment. As Mr P didn’t want to contact NewDay our 
investigator asked that he be sent the income and expenditure form. NewDay said the 
 
 
quickest way to deal with the income and expenditure assessment was for Mr P to contact it 
but it noted he didn’t want to do this and said a form would be sent out. While there was a 
delay in the form being sent, as this happened (and there was an alternative available to 
Mr P to have this actioned sooner if he had called) I find this resolves this issue.  
 
Mr P said that he hadn’t been awarded any compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
he had been caused by being provided with the additional credit irresponsibly and the time 
and upset he experienced dealing with this. Our investigator reassessed this and 
recommended that Mr P be paid £250. Mr P accepted this, but NewDay didn’t. 
 
When a complaint about irresponsible lending is upheld, our usual recommendations are for 
all interest and charges to be refunded (along with statutory interest where appropriate) and 
any adverse information removed from the customer’s credit file. This is the remedy that was 
set out in our investigator’s view. We can consider the distress and inconvenience but, in this 
case, I do not think that an additional payment for this is required. While I note Mr P’s 
comment about the stress he was caused by the additional borrowing, he already had an 
outstanding account with NewDay (along with other credit accounts) and while his debt was 
increased, I can’t say that this alone was the cause of his stress. Mr P had the benefit of the 
additional credit provided from July 2022 and because this shouldn’t have happened, he will 
be refunded all interest, fees and charges. This means the additional credit would have been 
provided at no cost. I find this the fair outcome. 
 
I note Mr P’s comments about the inconvenience he has been caused by bringing his 
complaint to NewDay and then to this service and the delays in the responses from NewDay. 
He feels that given the upset and inconvenience he has been caused compensation is 
warranted in this case. While I have considered his comments, we wouldn’t usually award 
compensation for the time needed to raise a complaint, but I have considered the 
timeframes involved in this process. In this case Mr P asked for his complaint to be 
investigated in August 2024 and NewDay was contacted. There was then a delay before the 
business file was provided in November 2024. While I understand this was frustrating the 
investigation was still ongoing with Mr P providing evidence where he could. The view was 
issued on 29 November 2024 partially upholding Mr P’s complaint and with a deadline to 
respond by 13 December 2024. NewDay didn’t respond by that date and so the case was 
put into the queue for an ombudsman decision. However, on 15 January 2025 NewDay 
agreed to our investigator’s view. 
 
So, while I can see there were some delays due to slow responses by NewDay, and I accept 
this was both disappointing and frustrating, as Mr P’s case was able to progress during the 
period of delay and I do not find there is evidence that these delays caused any material 
issues, I do not require compensation to be paid in this case. 
 
Following the acceptance of the view Mr P raised further questions in regard to the redress 
and payment plan. He also asked about compensation. These issues have needed to be 
responded to and NewDay has done this. As Mr P hasn’t wished to settle his complaint until 
this had happened, which is reasonable, this has resulted in the case taking longer. But I do 
not find that NewDay has delayed this process following its acceptance of the view. 
 
Taking everything into account, while I appreciate Mr P believes compensation should be 
paid, in this case I think the settlement offered in regard to the irresponsible lending is a fair 
outcome.  
 
I’ve also considered whether NewDay acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way 
given what Mr P has complained about, including whether its relationship with Mr P might 
have been unfair under Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. However, I’m 
satisfied the redress directed below results in fair compensation for Mr P in the 
 
 
circumstances of his complaint. I’m satisfied, based on what I’ve seen, that no additional 
award would be appropriate in this case. 
Putting things right 
Where a business has made an error, our service would usually aim to put the consumer 
back in the position they’ve would’ve been in, had the error not occurred. However, in cases 
where a business has lent irresponsibly this isn’t entirely possible, as the lending provided 
cannot be undone and Mr P has had the advantage of the funds he borrowed. Instead, we 
consider what shouldn’t be applied as if the decision hadn’t been made. 
In this case, as has already been agreed, NewDay should:  
 
• Rework the account removing all interest and charges on balances above £5,650 
from 7 July 2022. 
• If the rework results in a credit balance, it should refund any overpayments to Mr P 
along with 8% simple interest* per year from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. It should also remove any adverse information recorded on Mr P’s 
credit file from July 2022 onwards. 
• If after the rework there is still a balance outstanding, NewDay should ensure it puts 
in place an affordable repayment plan for the outstanding amount (this process was 
started following the issuing of the view and should be completed to the extent this 
hasn’t already happened). Once the capital has been repaid, it should remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr P’s credit file from July 2022 onwards. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. 
 
My final decision 
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd should take the actions set out above in resolution of 
this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2025. 
   
Jane Archer 
Ombudsman