DRN-4582773
The complaint
Mr P says Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited wrongly declined a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy and cancelled it based on fraud and his inappropriate driving.
What happened
Mr P told Admiral in November 2021 that he’d had to swerve to avoid a car that moved into 
his lane, after which his car hit the road’s central barrier and then a wall on the other side of 
the road. Later it was written off. In August 2022 Admiral declined the claim. It said he’d 
given several versions of what he did immediately after the accident and had said he’d been 
driving at the legal speed limit (50mph). But the driver of the car he said had caused the 
accident disputed liability. He said the road was wet and that Mr P was driving at over 
80mph before the collision. The car’s electronic control unit (‘ECU’) showed a speed of 
77mph on impact. Admiral said Mr P had tried to mislead it and had driven inappropriately, in 
breach of a policy condition, which had caused or contributed to the accident. 
Mr P said he’d had no idea he was speeding, as he wasn’t familiar with the new, powerful 
car, and that he hadn’t misled Admiral. He said its contact with him had been poor, and in his 
opinion it wanted to avoid paying out because his car was of high value. When Mr P  
complained to us, one of our investigators concluded that his actions after the accident had 
no bearing on the claim. And he thought Admiral shouldn’t have relied on the car’s speed, in 
the absence of a police investigation. He thought it should reinstate the policy, reconsider 
the claim, remove any fraud marker, and pay Mr P compensation. 
Admiral said it also had concerns about Mr P having left the scene quickly (before the police 
arrived) and his refusal of medical help, despite his injuries. The investigator said there was 
nothing to support these concerns – but he accepted the evidence of the car’s high speed on 
impact. As there was still no agreement, I reviewed the complaint. I issued a provisional 
decision (not upholding it) as follows:  
Misleading details provided by Mr P
Mr P told Admiral he had injuries that required hospital treatment, yet he didn’t accept 
help from an ambulance crew. He told his passenger he was heading home, but he 
gave  Admiral several versions of what he did next, including getting a lift home from 
his brother. Admiral thought Mr P wanted to avoid being breathalysed (although there 
was no evidence that he’d consumed alcohol). I thought it was clear why Admiral 
thought the discrepancies it had noted (including the details Mr P gave it about his 
speed) didn’t reflect well on his credibility.
Mr P told Admiral that at the time of the accident he’d just increased his speed from 
30mph to 50mph. Given that an expert’s analysis of the ECU’s data conflicted with 
that, I thought it was reasonable for Admiral to conclude that Mr P had given it false 
information – and that in doing so he’d tried to mislead it about the circumstances of 
the accident and the claim.  
Inappropriate driving conduct

Admiral decided it wasn’t appropriate for Mr P to be driving on a highway at around 
30mph over the legal speed limit. Although he said he was unfamiliar with the car, he 
owned it - and he told Admiral’s external investigator that he was familiar with it. I 
thought Admiral’s decision was reasonable. All drivers are required to monitor their 
speed and comply with legal speed limits. I didn’t think the fact that the police took no 
action was relevant - police action isn’t needed in order for Admiral to rely on a policy 
term. And I thought it was fair for Admiral to conclude that Mr P’s speed caused or 
contributed to the accident. In those circumstances the policy only provides cover for 
others, under the Road Traffic Act 1988 (‘RTA’) but not for Mr P. 
I thought Admiral had the right to cancel the policy, to keep the premium and to 
require Mr P to refund any outlay it had on any third-party claim, in line with the RTA. 
I also thought it had the right to add a fraud marker to his record. I said Admiral could 
only require Mr P to reimburse its own costs for the claim that were over and above 
standard claim costs (such as for expert ECU analysis and external investigators). 
I asked the parties to comment o my provisional findings. Admiral didn’t do so. Mr P 
explained why he disagreed with them and provided recordings of calls with some of 
Admiral’s advisors that he thinks support his case. Much of the information supplied by Mr P 
echoed what he’d already told us. In summary, he made the following main points:
Admiral questioned him five times after he reported the accident, over a period of 
many weeks (with gaps). Although not all his accounts to it were identical, he 
made no attempt to mislead it. When he was called by Admiral at work, it wasn’t 
easy to focus on its queries, mostly due to constant interruptions. He cited a call 
with a senior manager on 2 February 2022 – and he said he now realised that 
Admiral’s questions were meant to trip him up. In any event, he thought his 
actions after the accident were irrelevant. And his brother couldn’t help as Admiral 
wanted him to join a video call that meant it taking control of his personal data.
Familiarity with a car is subjective - and others have told Mr P that perhaps he 
wasn’t as familiar with the car as he thought. But he’s a competent driver who 
hadn’t made a claim in over 12 years before this one. 
Admiral made a special effort to repudiate the claim as the car was high value – 
and its service was poor, especially in delaying the claim unreasonably.
In a letter to Admiral in August 2022 Mr P told it the other driver had given it false 
information because he was hoping to gain financially from the accident. It was all 
‘something of a blur’ to Mr P, and if he was driving at over 50mph it wasn’t 
intentional – and he didn’t deliberately mislead Admiral about it.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I don’t think the call recordings provided by Mr P show that Admiral’s advisors acted 
unreasonably. It’s their role to check that a consumer has provided accurate details and to 
address any inconsistencies. Although Mr P may have seen this as trying to trip him up, I 
think the advisors were only trying to establish the facts. 
The calls were made over a period of weeks because Admiral was carrying out a complex 
investigation. Potentially, it included two other drivers and their insurers, the police, 
witnesses, technical enquiries, and possible fraud. I don’t think it was unreasonable for it to 
question Mr P several times. He provided most of the necessary information right at the start 
of the claim, but his account of events needed clarifying as the investigation progressed. I 
don’t think most consumers’ accurate recollections of a major event tend to change much 
over a relatively short time (the call recordings Mr P provided are only spread over two to 
three months). In my opinion, Mr P hasn’t shown there was any undue delay by Admiral in its 
claims investigation; fraud is a serious matter that has to be given thorough consideration.
Apart from the call during which Mr P reported the accident, two of the call recordings are 
over 25 minutes duration. At the start of each, Mr P was asked if it was convenient for him to 
speak to the advisor, so the calls could have been rearranged if necessary. In the call with 
the senior manager, Mr P gave instructions to a colleague right at the start, but there were 
no more interruptions. Mr P seemed content to speak to the advisors, and he didn’t seem to 
be under any pressure from them or struggle unduly to answer their queries. 
Mr P still thinks his actions after the accident are irrelevant. But as I said in my provisional 
decision, because of the inconsistencies in the details he gave (added to the inaccuracies 
about the accident) his overall credibility was a concern for Admiral. One of the queries could 
have been resolved by Mr P’s brother, and Mr P seems to think it’s Admiral’s fault that he 
couldn’t assist. I’m not sure how much difference his limited testimony would have made, but 
I can’t see why he couldn’t have helped by providing it other than through a video call.  
I still don’t think it was unreasonable for Admiral to decide that Mr P’s driving behaviour 
caused or contributed to the accident. I can see why it didn’t think it was reasonable for him 
to say he wasn’t aware of his speed, and therefore he didn’t mislead it on that score. In my 
opinion, it was fair for Admiral to decide that Mr P knew, or should have known, that he was 
driving at hugely excessive speed when the collision occurred, regardless of the car’s power.  
In terms of poor service from Admiral, Mr P says he was on hold for long periods and that 
when he chased it for updates, he sometimes didn’t get a call back. Some inconvenience is 
unavoidable when making a claim, and the evidence I’ve seen doesn’t show that Mr P 
complained about a continuing lack of contact. Although there may well have been times 
when Admiral’s service could have been better, I think it made a reasonable effort to keep 
him informed. Mr P felt frustrated by an advisor telling him the claim would be paid, only to 
advise him that new issues had arisen. He says the issues weren’t new. But even if they 
were missed initially, I don’t think it makes a difference to the outcome. Admiral told Mr P on 
21 January 2022 that the claim would be paid subject to the completion of all necessary 
checks. So the offer to settle the claim was always conditional, which is in line with standard 
industry practice when enquiries are ongoing. 
I don’t think Mr P has shown a level of poor service on Admiral’s part that justifies it having to 
pay him compensation. And I don’t think he’s shown that it acted any differently in his case 
that it would have done had it had been handling a similar, but low value, claim. 
I understand why Mr P is very upset about the situation. He seems to have had an excellent 
driving record prior to making this claim, and he now faces a significant financial loss. But I 
think Admiral reviewed all the evidence and I think its conclusions were fair and reasonable. 
I know Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, but in my opinion there isn’t a sound 
basis on which to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 February 2024. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman