DRN-4631117
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Post Office Management Services Limited mis-sold them a 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving reasons for my decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Post Office had a responsibility to ensure 
that Mr and Mrs C were given clear, fair and non-misleading information about the policy. 
I’m upholding this complaint because: 
It’s not disputed that Post Office failed to give Mr and Mrs C the right information 
about cover for their bikes under the policy.
Mr and Mrs C were sent the policy terms and conditions after the call. But I think they 
most likely placed more weight on the information they were given in the call. And I 
think it was reasonable for them to rely on that information as they’d specifically 
queried the cover available. 
I think it’s most likely that if Mr and Mrs C had been aware of the limitation of cover 
for their bikes, they’d have tried to source alternative cover as they were specifically 
looking for a policy which covered theft of a bike. However, they are also most likely 
to have had to pay more for that cover or take out a more specialised policy.
Mr and Mrs C are now left without the cover they wanted and thought they had. In the 
circumstances of this case, I think it’s fair and reasonable for Post Office to cover the 
cost of their stolen bike under the personal belongings section of cover. However, 
they are entitled to take into account the maximum limit specified in the policy and 
any other relevant policy terms. If Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the amount paid 
following this review, they may be able to make a further complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Putting things right
Post Office needs to put things right by reviewing the available information and making a 
payment to Mr and Mrs C under the personal belongings section of cover, up to the relevant 
policy limit and in line with the remaining policy terms. 

My final decision
I’m upholding this complaint against Post Office Management Services Limited and direct 
them to put things right in the way I’ve outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman