DRN-5132555 
 
 
Complaint 
 
Mr C complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (“BMF”) unfairly entered into a hire-purchase 
agreement with him. He’s said that the payments to this agreement were unaffordable and 
so he should not have been lent to.  
 
Background 
In December 2018, BMF provided Mr C with finance for a used car. The purchase price of 
the vehicle was £11,999.00. Mr C didn’t pay a deposit and entered into a hire-purchase 
agreement, which had a 61-month term, with BMF for the entire £11,999.00 he needed to 
complete his purchase.  
 
The loan had interest and charges of £10,423.56 (which was made up of interest of 
£9,898.60, a credit acceptance fee (A) of £364.96, a credit acceptance (B) fee of £150 and 
an option to purchase fee of £10). All of this meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£22,422.56 was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £364.96 followed by a final 
monthly payment of £514.96.  
 
Mr C complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. BMF didn’t uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that the 
finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend.  
 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didn’t think that BMF had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly. So he didn’t recommend that Mr C’s complaint 
should be upheld.  
 
Mr C disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.   
 
My findings 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
We’ve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And I’ve used this approach to help me decide Mr C’s complaint.  
 
Having carefully thought about everything I’ve been provided with, I’m not upholding           
Mr C’s complaint. I’d like to explain why in a little more detail. 
 
BMF needed to make sure that it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that BMF needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr C before providing it.  
 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lender’s checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think it’s reasonable for a lender’s checks to be less 

 
 
thorough – in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information – in the early stages of a lending relationship.  
 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower’s income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had – such as a significantly impaired 
credit history – suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrower’s 
ability to repay.  
 
I’ve kept this in mind when considering the checks that BMF carried out. 
 
BMF says it agreed to this application after Mr C provided details of his monthly income and  
it carried out credit searches on Mr C, which didn’t show any significant adverse information 
such as defaulted accounts or County Court Judgement (“CCJ”) recorded against him. In 
BMF’s view, when reasonable repayments towards the amount Mr C already owed plus a 
reasonable amount for Mr C’s living expenses (based on average data) were deducted from 
his monthly income the monthly payments for this agreement were still affordable.  
 
On the other hand, Mr C says that the payments were unaffordable and there was no way he 
was going to be able to maintain them. 
 
I’ve thought about what Mr C and BMF have said.  
 
In the first instance given Mr C didn’t have any significant adverse information recorded 
against him, appeared to be maintaining his existing credit commitments relatively well and 
he said that he was living at home with parents, there is a reasonable argument for saying 
that BMF’s checks were reasonable and proportionate. However, I do think it would have 
been prudent for BMF to have found out more about Mr C’s regular living expenses, 
particularly as his income doesn’t appear to have been verified or cross-checked.  
 
As BMF should have done more, I’ve gone on to decide what I think BMF is more likely than 
not to have seen had it done that here. As previously explained, given the circumstances 
here, I would have expected BMF to have had a reasonable understanding about Mr C’s 
regular living expenses as well as his income and existing credit commitments.  
 
I’ve considered the information Mr C has provided. I wish to make it clear that I’m not going 
to forensically re-underwrite Mr C’s application. I say this particularly as Mr C’s most recent 
submissions are being made in support of a claim for compensation and any explanations he 
would have provided at the time are more likely to have been with a view to persuading BMF 
to lend, rather than highlighting any unaffordability.    
 
As this is the case, I’m simply going to try and get some idea of what BMF is likely to have 
found out about Mr C’s living expenses had it done proportionate checks. I say this because 
when the identifiable actual payments Mr C was making towards his living costs, shown on 
the bank statements he’s provided, are added to his active credit commitments and then 
deducted from his income, he, at the time at least, appears to have enough left over to repay 
this agreement. 
 
In these circumstances, I don’t think that BMF carrying out further checks is likely to have led 
it to conclude that when Mr C’s regular living expenses and existing credit commitments 
were deducted from his monthly income, he did not have the funds, at the time at least, to 
sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement.   
 
I accept that Mr C appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he may have provided, or the information BMF 
 
 
obtained. For example, I’ve seen he’s said that he took out cash withdrawals on a credit card 
and this strongly suggests that he may have been struggling with cash flow.  
 
However, BMF did not receive that level of detail on the credit checks it carried out. 
Secondly, I don’t agree that that the cash withdrawals in themselves – particularly given       
Mr C had no significant adverse information recorded against him, he had little in the way of 
actual regular living costs and the current account balance he had – necessarily indicates 
that he was struggling in the way that he’s argued either.   
 
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I’m not persuaded that BMF’s 
checks before entering into this hire-purchase agreement with Mr C did go far enough, I’m 
satisfied that BMF doing more won’t have stopped it from providing these funds, or entering 
into this agreement with him.  
 
In reaching this conclusion I’ve also considered whether the lending relationship between 
BMF and Mr C might have been unfair to Mr C under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (“CCA”).  
 
However, for the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t think BMF irresponsibly lent to Mr C or 
otherwise treated him unfairly in relation to this matter. And I haven’t seen anything to 
suggest that section 140A CCA or anything else would, given the facts of this complaint, 
lead to a different outcome here. So I’m not upholding this complaint.  
 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr C. But I hope he’ll understand the reasons 
for my decision and at least consider that his concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I’m not upholding Mr C’s complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2024. 
   
Jeshen Narayanan 
Ombudsman