DRN-4192440
The complaint
Ms R has complained that UTMOST LIFE AND PENSIONS LIMITED paid the death benefit 
from her late brother’s pension policy to her sister-in-law. Ms R was the nominated 
beneficiary under the policy and thinks that she should have been paid the death benefit.
What happened
Ms R’s brother took out a pension policy with Utmost in 1989. Ms R was nominated as the 
beneficiary under the policy by her brother at that time.
Sadly, Ms R’s brother died in May 2020. The day after he died, Utmost was informed of his 
death by his widow, that is, Ms R’s sister-in-law. Four days later Ms R also informed Utmost 
of her brother’s death.  
Utmost have said that on being notified of the death they asked both Ms R and her sister-in-
law for an original copy of the death certificate.
At the end of December 2020 Utmost wrote to Ms R and enclosed a Family Information 
Form, which they asked her to complete and return. They also asked Ms R again for an 
original copy of the death certificate, as they hadn’t received a reply to their earlier request. 
Utmost have said that they didn’t receive the completed Family Information Form, or a copy 
of the death certificate, back from Ms R.
In July 2021 Utmost received a letter from the lawyers dealing with the administration of Ms 
R’s late brother’s estate, asking if there were any benefits to be paid under Ms R’s brother’s 
policy. The lawyers enclosed a copy of the death certificate with their letter. In reply, Utmost 
sent the lawyers a Pension Death Information Form to be completed and returned. 
In their reply letter to the lawyers, Utmost said: “Who will we pay the benefit to. As trustees 
of the pension scheme Utmost Life and Pensions will need to consider anybody nominated 
by (Ms R’s brother) to receive the payment on death (if such a nomination was made), 
together with other details about their estate, before we make payment”. 
Utmost received back the completed Pension Death Benefit Information Form on 3 August 
2021. The Pension Death Information Form had been completed by Ms R’s sister-in-law. 
Utmost paid out the death benefit under the pension policy to Ms R’s sister-in-law on 9 
August 2021.

Ms R telephoned Utmost on 27 May 2022 to ask about the payment of the death benefit 
under her late brother’s pension policy. Utmost wrote to Ms R on 1 July 2022 to explain that 
the rules of Ms R’s late brother’s pension policy gave Utmost, as scheme administrator, 
discretion over who should receive the death benefit. 
Utmost went on to explain that having received information about Ms R’s late brother’s family 
circumstances at the time of his death they had assessed the claim based on all of the 
information available to them. As a result, the death benefit had been paid out to Ms R’s 
sister-in-law.   
Ms R wasn’t happy with Utmost’s response, she thought that as she was the nominated 
beneficiary under the pension policy then she should have been paid the death benefit. Ms R 
therefore referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An Investigator within the Financial Ombudsman Service reviewed Ms R’s complaint. Their 
view was that Utmost hadn’t done anything wrong. Ms R didn’t agree with the Investigator’s 
view so asked for her complaint to be brought to an Ombudsman.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R was nominated as the beneficiary under her brother’s Utmost pension policy when it 
was taken out in 1989. 
I’ve seen a copy of the Trust Deed that applied to Ms R’s late brother’s pension policy. 
Section 5 of this Trust Deed states:
“Where under the Rules and subject as provided therein the Scheme Administrator is 
required to pay a lump sum either to or for the benefit of any one or more of the beneficiaries 
of a deceased Member the choice of such beneficiary or beneficiaries and the shares in 
which the lump sum is paid to each will be at the absolute discretion of the Scheme 
Administrator”
Under the heading “MEMBER DIES BEFORE THE PENSION STARTS – LUMP SUM” of 
section 10.4 of the Trust deed it’s stated:
“INTERGRATED SET OF MODEL RULES FOR APPROPRIATE PERSONAL PENSION 
SCHEMES” 
 “Lump Sum payable by Scheme Administrator – Method of Payment. The Scheme 
Administrator will pay the lump sum either to or for the benefit of any one or more of the 
following Beneficiaries as he thinks fit.                                                                                  
For this purpose a Member’s Beneficiaries are: -                                                                    
a) his spouse, children and remoter issue;                                                                              
b) his Dependants;                                                                                                                   
c) the individuals entitled under his will to any interest in his estate;                                       
d) any individuals whose names the Member has notified to the Scheme Administrator in 
writing; and                                                                                                                               
e) his legal personal representative.”
I think that the Trust Deed is clearly saying that Utmost, as Scheme Administrator, had 
“absolute discretion” over who they could pay the death benefit to. Therefore, although Ms R 
was the nominated beneficiary under the policy, this did not mean that she would necessarily 
be paid the death benefit.   
Utmost wrote to Ms R in December 2020. I’ve seen a copy of the letter Utmost sent and it 
asks Ms R to send Utmost a copy of the death certificate and to complete and return a 
Family Information Form. However, Utmost have said that they never received these 
documents from Ms R and did not hear back from her until May 2022. Ms R has said that 
she remembers posting the form back to Utmost but has no copy of the completed form. 
Utmost did receive a death certificate and completed Pensions Death Information Form from 
the lawyers dealing with the administration of Ms R’s late brother’s estate. The Pensions 
Death Information Form had been completed and signed by Ms R’s sister-in-law, who was 
Ms R’s late brother’s widow.
Utmost have said that at the time that Ms R’s brother started his pension policy he was 
single. Utmost have gone on to say: “By the time he died in 2020, his circumstances had 
changed and he had a wife and child who were financially dependent on him. We exercised 
our discretion to pay the death benefits to his wife based on all the information available to 
us at the time of his death”.
I think it reasonable that Utmost did note the change in circumstance of Ms R’s late brother 
from when the policy had been set up.
Ms R has said that she had provided financial support to her brother and his family and that 
it was her late brother’s wish that she should receive the death benefit from the pension 
policy in return for this. Ms R has also said that Utmost never informed her that they had 
paid out the death benefit to her sister-in-law. Ms R also thinks that Utmost should have 
looked into her situation. 
However, Utmost have said that when the claim was paid, they would not have written to Ms 
R to notify her. Instead, their normal procedure would be to notify the person to whom the 
death benefits are being paid when the claim is paid out. 
Utmost had not received any of the documentation they had asked Ms R for in December 
2020 and then didn’t hear further from her until May 2022. I therefore don’t think it 
unreasonable that Utmost didn’t contact Ms R when they paid out the death claim in August 
2021. 
As I’ve said above, Utmost had absolute discretion over who they could pay the death 
benefit to under the Trust Deed applying to Ms R’s late brother’s pension policy
I therefore don’t think that Utmost have done anything wrong. They received the 
documentation they needed to pay out the death benefits under the pension policy and paid 
out the benefits using the discretion they were allowed to exercise under the Trust Deed 
applying to the policy. 
I am therefore unable to uphold Ms R’s complaint.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms R’s complaint against UTMOST LIFE AND PENSIONS LIMITED. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman