DRN-4806266
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way in which Home Retail Group Card Services Limited’s handled 
his credit account. He says it unfairly closed the account and reported a default on his cedit 
file.
What happened
Home Retail opened the account in February 2022. In October of that year, the account fell 
into arrears and Home Retail contacted Mr T about clearing them. When Home Retail didn’t 
receive payment by late January 2023, it registered a default against Mr T and passed the 
account to a debt collection agency (DCA).  
Unhappy with Home Retail’s actions, Mr T complained. Among other things, he said he’d 
tried to pay back the arrears but – through no fault of his own – hadn’t been able to access 
Home Retail’s mobile app in order to do so. 
Home Retail replied that it had acted appropriately by adding the default, which was done in 
accordance with the letters and notices it had sent Mr T in advance and the terms of the 
account. It said it wasn’t aware of any issues with customers accessing its app around the 
time in question.
Dissatisfied with Home Retail’s response, Mr T brought a complaint to this service. In 
essence he felt he’d tried to pay the arrears and that he’d been stopped from doing so due to 
problems with the app and in speaking to Home Retail over the phone.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didn’t recommend that it should be upheld. 
They found that Home Retail had sent Mr T adequate warning regarding the consequences 
of not paying in time and that it had acted fairly overall. The investigator said other avenues 
remained available to Mr T even if he had problems with the app and reaching Home Retail 
by phone.  
As Mr T didn’t agree with the investigator’s findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr T’s raised a number of points and questions about his complaint. But 
this service is intended to function quickly and informally. In-keeping with that, I’ve not 
sought to respond to each and every point Mr T’s raised. Rather I’ve focussed on addressing 
the key issues that I consider go to the heart of the complaint. 
Having done so, I don’t uphold this complaint. I’ll explain why.
Fundamentally, Mr T entered into an agreement to pay Home Retail back in relation to his 

credit facility. This meant him paying an agreed amount on an agreed date each month for 
the term of the facility. It’s not in dispute that Mr T didn’t comply with those terms when the 
arrears accrued on the account.
What is in dispute is what happened following the arrears building on the account from 
October 2022 onwards. On the one hand, Home Retail says it made adequate attempts to 
notify Mr T of the arrears and of the consequences of them not being cleared in time. On the 
other hand, Mr T says Home Retail didn’t do enough to help him avoid the default being 
added, and that he was blocked for various reasons from making the payments he needed 
to.
From the information that’s been made available to me, I can see that Home Retail 
contacted Mr T on several occasions regarding the arrears. For example, its letter of 8 
November 2022 explained that arrears had accrued and that they should be cleared 
immediately. Further letters along these same lines were issued after that time until Home 
Retail sent Mr T a default notice on 27 December 2022. This referred to the risk of a default 
being recorded on his credit file and set out the various ways in which Mr T could bring the 
account up to date. These consisted of the app, phone, online and methods referred to in the 
account statements, such as cheque and direct debit.
Taking all of this account, I think Home Retail did enough to explain to Mr T that his account 
was in arrears, what he needed to do to bring the account up to date and when, and the 
various ways in which payment could be made. Given that the account was in arrears for 
three months before the default was recorded, I believe it was fair for Home Retail to act as it 
did.
I’ve thought very carefully about everything Mr T’s said, including that he called Home Retail 
on several occasions between the arrears accruing and the default being added. But I 
haven’t seen anything to demonstrate on balance that he attempted to bring the account up 
to date during those calls. If Mr T had attempted to do so, I don’t see why Home Retail 
wouldn’t have allowed him to make the necessary payments.  
Even if Mr T’s attempts to pay by phone or using the app were somehow blocked (and, for 
the reasons given, I don’t think they were), I’m satisifed other avenues of payment were still 
available to him. For example, by sending a cheque in the post.  
I’m very sorry to hear of Mr T’s circumstances and of the difficulties he’s experienced as a 
result of the default being recorded, including the impact on his mental health. That said, I 
must be fair to both parties. I can’t reasonably say, on the available evidence, that Home 
Retail wasn’t entitled to act as it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2024.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman