DRN-4652026
Complaint
Ms S complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (“Startline”) unfairly entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with her. She’s said the monthly payments to the agreement were not 
affordable and so she shouldn’t have been accepted for it. 
Background
In January 2022, Startline provided Ms S with finance for a used car. The cash price of the 
vehicle was £8,995.00. Ms S didn’t pay a deposit and entered into a 60-month hire-purchase 
agreement with Startline for the entire purchase price of £8,995.00. 
The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £6,031.80 (made up of interest of £6,021.80 
and a credit facility fee of £10, which needed to be paid if Ms S exercised her option to 
purchase the vehicle) at the end of the term. So the total amount to be repaid of £8,485.90 
was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £250.28 followed by 1 final monthly 
payment of £260.28. 
Ms S’ complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didn’t think that Startline had 
done anything wrong or treated Ms S unfairly. So he didn’t recommend that Ms S’ complaint 
should be upheld. 
Ms S disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And I’ve used this approach to help me decide Ms S’ complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything I’ve been provided with, I’m not upholding           
Ms S’ complaint. I’d like to explain why in a little more detail.
Startline needed to make sure that it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Startline needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Ms S could make her payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend to her. And 
if the checks Startline carried out weren’t sufficient, I then need to consider what reasonable 
and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lender’s checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think it’s reasonable for a lender’s checks to be less 
thorough – in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information – in the early stages of a lending relationship. 

But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower’s income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had – such as a significantly impaired 
credit history – suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrower’s 
ability to repay. 
Startline says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Ms S. During this assessment, Ms S provided details of her monthly income 
which was validated against information received from credit reference agencies on the 
amount going into her account each month. Startline says it also carried out credit searches 
on Ms S which showed that she did have some defaulted accounts. But five of the six 
defaulted accounts were historic. In terms of active commitments, Ms S did have existing 
debts but as she was living at home with parents it didn’t consider these to be excessive.
 
Startline argues that when the amount Ms S already owed plus a reasonable amount for   
Ms S’ living expenses, based on average data, were deducted from her monthly income the 
monthly payments required for this agreement were affordable. On the other hand, Ms S 
says that these payments weren’t affordable for her.
I’ve thought about what Ms S and Startline have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that unlike our investigator, I don’t think that the checks 
Startline carried out did go far enough. In my view, given the number of defaults that Ms S 
had – albeit the vast majority were historic, I don’t think that it was reasonable to conclude 
that these were no longer relevant. And I think that the presence of these defaults meant that 
Startline needed to take further steps to get an appreciation of Ms S’ actual living costs. In 
my view, it was not reasonable to simply rely on average data when Ms S’ defaults did not 
indicate that she fit the profile of an average customer. 
As Startline didn’t carry out sufficient checks, I have gone on to decide what I think Startline 
is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from Ms S. Given the 
circumstances here, I would have expected Startline to have had a reasonable 
understanding about Ms S’ regular living costs and used this information to supplement what 
it found out as a result of the credit checks.
To be clear, I’m not going to carry out a forensic analysis of Ms S’ bank statements in order 
to assess whether the loan payments were affordable. I’m simply going to consider what 
Startline is likely to have done if it had obtained the missing information I think it should have 
done here. 
I’ve therefore gone on to decide what I think Startline is more likely than not to have seen 
had it obtained further information from Ms S about her living expenses. The information        
Ms S has provided does appear to show that when her committed regular living expenses 
are combined with what Startline knew about her existing credit commitments from its credit 
checks and then deducted from her monthly income, Startline is more likely than not to have 
concluded that she would have had the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept that Ms S says she was unable to make the payments to this agreement because of 
her gambling. But what I need to think about here is what did Startline need to do in order to 
answer the questions its initial checks left unanswered – in other words, what were Ms S’ 
actual regular living expenses given this was a first agreement and Ms S was being provided 
with a car rather than cash.
So I simply need to add Ms S’ actual living costs to the information Startline already had and 
relied on and when this is done, I don’t think that Startline would have had cause to question 
Ms S’ ability to afford the loan. I do accept that it is possible - but by no means certain - that 
Startline might have reached a different conclusion had it considered the content of Ms S’ 
bank statements. 
However, checking bank statements wasn’t the only way for Startline to have found out more 
about Ms S’ actual living costs – it could have obtained copies of bills or other evidence of 
payment etc. So I don’t think that proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining 
the bank statements Ms S has now provided us with. And I don’t think that Startline did know 
or that it could reasonably be expected to have known about the true extent of Ms S’ 
spending or gambling. 
I accept that Ms S’ actual circumstances at the time were worse than what I’ve set out. For 
example, I’ve already referred to her gambling. But it remains the case that Startline didn’t 
know that Ms S was gambling. And I don’t think that it can reasonably be expected to have 
factored this into its decision on whether to lend to her.
So having carefully considered everything, I’m satisfied that the available information makes 
it appear, at least, as though Ms S had sufficient funds in order for the monthly payments to 
this agreement to be made in a sustainable manner. And in my view, it is unlikely – and less 
likely than not – that Startline would have declined to lend if it had carried out further checks 
along the line of what I think that it needed to find out here.
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I don’t think that Startline’s checks 
before entering into this hire-purchase agreement with Ms S did go far enough, I’ve not been 
persuaded that reasonable and proportionate checks would have prevented Startline from 
providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with her. So I’ve not been persuaded 
that Startline acted unfairly towards Ms S when it lent to her. 
The amount Ms S paid to settle her agreement early
I now turn to Ms S’ concerns regarding the amount she had to pay when she settled her 
agreement. Ms S has said that she was overcharged when she settled her loan early. She 
not set out how much she believes she was overcharged by. But Ms S believes she paid too 
much given the total amount of the payments she made and the fact that the agreement was 
settled only 19 months or so after it started.  
I’ve thought about what Ms S has said but even though Ms S might have paid more than she 
anticipated when settling her loan early, I’ve not been persuaded that she was overcharged. 
To explain, section 94 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a borrower to settle a 
regulated credit agreement – such as Ms S’ agreement with Startline - and discharge their 
indebtedness early. And where a consumer requests to settle a credit agreement early, like 
Ms S requested to do here, the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 (“the 
regulations”) set out how a lender should work out what the customer needs to pay in order 
to settle the amount outstanding.
Section 5 of the regulations allows a lender to calculate a settlement for (and valid until) a 
date 28 days after the request for a settlement figure was made. And interest would be 
charged for this 28-day period. Furthermore, if the agreement in question has a term for 
longer than a year, like Ms S’ five-year agreement did, section 6 of the regulations allows the 
lender to defer the settlement date, for the purposes of calculating an interest rebate, by a 
further 30 days. 
Therefore, as Ms S’ request was a request to settle an agreement which had an original term 
of longer than one year early, the regulations permitted Startline to charge interest for a 
period of 58 days from the date she requested a settlement figure. 
It’s also important to note that all loans are based on an amortisation schedule where each 
instalment is made up of some of the interest and charges as well as some of the capital 
advanced. In the early stages, as the amount owed is larger, even though a monthly 
payment may appear relatively large - in proportion to the amount borrowed - a much 
smaller proportion of this payment goes to repaying the capital. The proportion going 
towards interest as the amount owing reduces.
But while Ms S had a fixed monthly payment the amount going towards interest was not 
fixed each month. And Ms S, like many consumers in her position may believe that they’ve 
paid off more of their loan than they have due to the cash amount of the total payments 
made, because they’re unaware of the way that their loan would be amortised and that a 
larger proportion of the early payments were going towards the interest. This is even more 
likely to be the case in the early stages of a loan as most of the repayment will be going to 
interest. 
In Ms S’ case, this matters even more because Ms S faced around 58 days interest 
(because of the initial term of the loan) at an APR of 24.8% being added to an unexpectedly 
larger outstanding capital balance. And this is the reason why she has paid a significant 
proportion of the total interest due on the agreement even though the loan was settled early. 
So while Ms S may have had to pay more that she expected to when she requested her 
settlement figure, I’ve not been persuaded that she was overcharged in this instance.
Ms S’ comments about attempting to cancel her agreement    
Ms S has said that her attempts to cancel her agreement during the cooling off period were 
unfairly ignored. I’ve thought about what Ms S has said and I’ve considered the screenshot 
of the email she has provided which she received from the broker that arranged the finance 
for her.
Having considered the information, while I do not completely rule out the possibility Ms S 
attempted to cancel the agreement and that Startline unfairly failed to act upon this, I can’t 
reasonably say this is more likely than not what happened here. The email Ms S was sent by 
the broker provided a telephone number for Startline. The email also states:
“As discussed, please she below contact information for your lender (Startline Motor 
Finance) for any queries relating to ongoing repayments or changes to the registration 
plate.”  
The content of the email suggests that Ms S was directed to Startline for any queries she 
might have had about repayments and/or changing the number plate on the vehicle. The 
content of the email does not obviously demonstrate that Ms S was directed to Startline 
because she was looking to cancel the agreement and the broker was not in a position to do 
this. 
Furthermore, as Ms S has not been able to provide any details of the conversations or 
communications she had with Startline about this matter and she did not raise any issues 
regarding not being able to cancel the agreement until after the loan was settled, there 
simply isn’t enough here for me to agree that Ms S asked to cancel the agreement or that 
Startline unfairly failed to action this. Ms S’ actions in affirming the agreement by making 
payments and then settling it early implies a willingness to be bound by the terms. As this is 
the case, I’m not upholding this part of Ms S’ complaint either.  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, I don’t think that Startline has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in its dealing with Ms S and I’m therefore not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms S. But I hope she’ll 
understand the reasons for my decision and that she’ll at least feel her concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I’m not upholding Ms S’ complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman