DRN-5059620 
 
 
Complaint 
 
Mr P is unhappy that Revolut Ltd didn’t reimburse him after he fell victim to an investment 
scam. 
Background 
In early 2022, Mr P fell victim to an investment scam. His wife and daughter had passed 
away and so he’d sold a property. As a result of the sale, he had a significant balance in his 
current account which he was looking to invest. He looked online and found a website 
advertising the services of a broker. He registered his interest and, shortly afterwards, was 
contacted by someone who claimed to be a representative of that firm. He was told that they 
would help him with managing his money. The investment strategy would be focused on 
using Contracts for Difference (CFDs) to speculate on movements of publicly listed equities. 
Unfortunately, that person wasn’t the employee of a genuine investment firm but a scammer.  
 
Mr P was persuaded to download remote access software to his computer so that the 
scammer could help him set up his trading account and, later, his account with Revolut that 
would be used to make transfers into it. His money was in an account with a bank I’ll refer to 
as Bank A. Initially, Mr P attempted to make payments from his account with Bank A directly 
to the scammer. He first attempted to do so on 24 March 2022. Those attempts were 
stopped by Bank A and Mr P had to have several calls with agents of the bank who wanted 
to question the payment activity with him. I’ve transcribed a small section of two of those 
conversations that are relevant to the outcome here.  
 
On 25 March, he had a conversation with an employee of Bank A that went as follows: 
 
C: Which one are you on about? The £10,000 one? 
 
B: The transaction we are concerned about is for £10,000 and it is going to … 
Stablecoin … something? 
 
C: That went out this morning and that’s fine. 
 
B: May I please know the purpose of the payment, if you don’t mind? 
 
C: The purpose of the payment was for investments. 
 
B: Ok, no problem with that – may I please know, have you invested with them before 
or is this the first time? 
 
C: This is the first time. 
 
B: Ok, no problem. And may I know, how did you receive the account details from 
them? 
 
C: Talking to them. 
 

 
 
B: Over the phone, you’re saying? 
 
C: Over the phone, yes. 
 
B: And may I please know how did you get to know about Stablecoin? Was it through 
advertisement or research? 
 
C: Advertisement. 
 
B: Ok, no problem … and … did you consider making a smaller transfer first before 
making this £10,000 payment? 
 
C: I did. I tried transferring £500 and yesterday I tried to do a transfer of £5,000 and, 
to be perfectly honest with you, I was absolutely disgusted with the amount of time 
and effort it took trying to get it through. I was talking to people. I couldn’t understand 
them, I couldn’t hear them. I probably lost money overnight because I was unable to 
purchase. Now, the £5,000 has been taken out of my account. It’s not gone to theirs. 
It’s in the cloud somewhere and it needs to go back to my account now, they won’t 
be claiming it. 
 
B: Ok, the £5,000 from your [Bank A] account, you’re saying? 
 
C: Yes … It never went. It went out of my account and it was in limbo. It never went 
to them. 
 
B: Ok, did you check with them for any specific reason they had not received it, 
because … 
 
C: Because the bank refused! Because the bank refused! 
 
B: Ok … and just to be sure, did you receive any kind of text message or any emails 
that you thought was from [Bank A] or any other third party? 
 
C: Sorry? 
 
B: Just to be sure, did you receive any text message or any emails recently that you 
thought was from [Bank A] or any other third party? 
 
C: No. 
 
B: Ok, just for future reference, please never click on any suspicious links that you 
receive, even if you feel that you have received any text message or any emails from 
[Bank A]. I would request that you validate this directly using your registered mobile 
application or internet banking. But never click on any links to validate any message 
from anywhere. 
 
C: Right. 
 
B: And just to be sure, did you receive any third-party phone calls recently, like 
Amazon, BT, HMRC … asking you to transfer any funds. 
 
C: No. 
 
B: I would just request that you never believe on any of those phone calls as well 
because they’re definitely fraudulent phone calls. And I would also request that you 
 
 
never believe on any phone calls you receive from any of the banks claiming that 
your account has been compromised and you have to transfer all your funds to any 
other account or something like that. Because no bank will ever ask you to do that. 
 
C: … Right. 
 
B: And may I please know, has anyone told you how to answer our questions or 
asked you to mislead us in any way for the purpose of this payment? 
 
C: No, no. 
 
B: Ok, so you never believe on anyone asking you do that either because nowadays 
there are a lot of fraud and scam scenarios and we are receiving cases where our 
customers informed that they have received a few phone calls from police and they 
had asked them to transfer funds otherwise there would be an arrest warrant or any 
kind of a charge against them … 
 
C: I don’t understand what all of this is about! All I want to do is purchase some 
shares from a company from my account which I’ve got money in, and I have had 
nothing but trouble doing this. What is the problem? If I want to transfer it from my 
bank account across to somewhere else, what is the problem? 
 
B: There is no problem because there are a lot of fraud and scam scenarios 
regarding these investments nowadays …. We want you to be 200% sure before 
making any payment anywhere.  
 
C: Well, I’m sure. I’m an adult. I’m perfectly sure. You stopped me being able to do a 
transfer last night and I’ve had to go around to a different way of paying it to get it 
through. Now that should not happen with my bank account. I have money in my 
account, and I should be able to do what I want with it.   
 
B: I am concerned that this might be an investment scam so you should check where 
you are sending the money, I would say by having double checked everything with 
them once again because it’s the first time … 
 
C: Ok, thank you… 
 
[call ends] 
 
That £10,000 payment wasn’t processed by Bank A. It had been encouraging Mr P to carry 
out further checks and, in his frustration, Mr P appears to have ended the call. A further 
conversation took place the following day: 
 
B: I can see here that you have tried making a payment from this account for £10,000 
 
C: Also, there was a payment before that of £5,000 and one of £500 all to the same 
company. I believe you stopped all of them.  
 
B: To who are you trying to pay this amount? 
 
C: It’s to a company that’s dealing with shares for me …. [name of broker]. 
 
B: But I see a different name over here? I can see that you’ve made a payment to 
Stable Coin. 
 
 
 
C: That’s right. 
 
B: Who is this person to whom you’re trying to pay this £10,000? 
 
C: It’s supposed to be through to the company of [broker] through a Lucas. 
 
B: […]  But I can see a different name over here, as I mentioned … Stable Coin? 
Now, what is that? 
 
C: This whole thing started two days ago. I was trying to buy some shares and your 
bank has stopped my money going through. There’s £5,000 in a cloud somewhere 
and then you stopped £10,000 thinking that it was fraud. Well, I’m not sure about it 
now. I just want it stopped, back into my account and no more money to go out to 
these people. 
 
B: Ok, no problem – but Stable Coin is what? Is this an investing company? What 
exactly is it? 
 
C: I don’t know, I’m totally lost in this now. It was supposed to be buying Tesla 
shares.  
 
B: Ok, did someone approach you about this? How did you get to know about this? 
 
C: I went on the internet to look up for cryptocurrency … [the broker] came up and 
when I was looking at the information, someone phoned me up. 
 
B: Ok, are you sure it’s a legitimate company where you are transferring…? 
 
C: I’m not sure of anything anymore, I just … I want it stopped, the money returned 
back if it’s possible, so they can’t take anything else from me again. 
 
I understand that after this call, Mr P spoke to a member of his family who he trusted. That 
family member told him that the bank had been overzealous and that he shouldn’t be 
concerned. On the advice of the scammer, he opened an account with Revolut and 
attempted to make a payment to it from his account at Bank A. This was questioned again 
by the Bank and Mr P told it that he was transferring money to his Revolut account to 
purchase shares. 
 
He made payments from that account to his Revolut account. He then transferred on his 
funds from that account and, ultimately, via a crypto-platform to an account controlled by the 
fraudster. The payments Mr P made took the form of either card payments to Payee A or 
Faster Payments to Payee B (an FCA-authorised firm which, at the time, processed 
payments on behalf of Payee A). Those payments were used to purchase cryptocurrency 
from Payee B, which credited Mr P’s own cryptocurrency wallet. From his cryptocurrency 
account at Payee B, Mr P sent cryptocurrency to the fraudsters. 
 
In total, he transferred just under £270,000 between 5 April and 4 May 2022. The initial 
payments were made in the belief that he was putting his money under the control of 
someone who would invest it on his behalf and generate returns. The scammers then 
fabricated justifications for further payments, citing fees and taxes. At the end of the period 
of the scam, Mr P says he was told that he couldn’t get access to his profits without paying a 
fee equivalent to 10% of the balance on his trading account. When he said that he didn’t 
have access to that kind of money, the fraudsters recommended he take out a loan and lie to 
the bank about his reasons for doing so. It was at that point that he realised he must have 
fallen victim to a scam. 
 
 
 
He made the following payments from his Revolut account: 
 
Payment Date Payee Value of payment 
1 04 April 2022 A £3,000 
2 05 April 2022 A £7,000 
3 11 April 2022 B £15,000 
4 15 April 2022 B £20,000 
5 19 April 2022 B £25,000 
6 20 April 2022 B £10,000 
7 21 April 2022 B £25,000 
8 22 April 2022 B £25,000 
9 26 April 2022 B £25,000 
10 27 April 2022 B £25,000 
11 28 April 2022 B £21,000 
12 29 April 2022 B £25,000 
13 03 May 2022 B £25,000 
14 04 May 2022 B £20,000 
 
Revolut had concerns about payment 3. It told us that it temporarily paused that payment 
and showed Mr P the following warning: 
Suspicious transfer detected 
Our system has flagged this payment as a potential scam, are you sure you want to 
proceed? Please note, if you proceed with authorising the payment we may not be 
able to recover your money afterwards. 
Mr P agreed to proceed and so was asked to specify the purpose of the payment. The 
header at the top of the screen would’ve said “Beware, this payment might be a scam.” One 
of the listed options was Investment and, according to Revolut, “after choosing the purpose 
of the transfer, the Customer was asked whether they are pressured to make these 
payments and were they called unexpectedly? And the Customer was offered either to 
continue talking with Revolut support or cancel the transfer in question or confirm it.”  
After the payment was authorised, Revolut says Mr P would’ve seen the following message: 
Transfer accepted. You’ve successfully authorised a payment which was flagged by 
our system as a potential scam. 
 
 
Although it didn’t mention it in its original submissions, Revolut later added that Mr P 
would’ve seen the following warning during this payment process:  
1. You should try to verify that this is a genuine investment company/opportunity 
2. Scammers will typically promise significantly higher than market returns to attract you 
to the opportunity. 
3. Only purchase cryptocurrencies from reputable companies. 
4. Scammers often cold call or message with the promise of a great investment 
opportunity. 
5. Revolut and other trustworthy organizations will NEVER tell you to ignore this 
warning. 
 
On 24 April 2022, Revolut queried the source of the funds Mr P was putting through his 
account. It asked him to provide evidence to show where the money had come from. As far 
as I can see, Mr P didn’t respond to that request. However, on 5 May 2022, he replied on the 
app and said: “I have been scammed for approx. 290000 through this account and need help 
as to where it has gone and if I can get it back.” 
The Revolut agent replied to say that they’d open a new chat with a team that could help him 
with his fraud claim and asked him again to complete its source of funds verification process. 
On 12 May, Mr P responded to this agent and provided a brief description of the scam. He 
also said: “Can you please help me in any way I am desperate and feel suicidal. I have just 
lost my wife and daughter and have used the money from the sale of the house to try and 
invest only to be totally scammed and wiped out by these people.”  
The Revolut agent again said it would open a new chat with the fraud team but then 
reiterated that it would need Mr P to go through verification and answer its questions 
regarding the source of funds. Mr P said he would respond by email. Revolut then messaged 
him again and said that, as he’d mentioned investing in shares, could he please provide 
more evidence of that investment – for example, a statement from the investment manager, 
an investment certificate and so on. 
Eventually, Mr P complained to both Revolut and Bank A that neither had done enough to 
protect him from fraud. His complaint about Bank A is being dealt with under separate cover. 
Revolut didn’t agree to uphold his complaint and reimburse him. It said that it had done 
everything in its power to protect him and to attempt to recover his funds. It said it warned 
him about fraud risk. It temporarily stopped the third payment and asked Mr P what the 
purpose of the payment was. He selected ‘investment’ and so he saw a warning that was 
tailored to the risks posed by investment scams. 
Mr P was unhappy with that and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was looked at 
by an Investigator who upheld it in part. The Investigator said that Revolut needed to have 
systems in place to spot out of character or unusual payments that might have indicated 
Mr P was at risk of fraud. The Investigator concluded that the third payment in the table 
above was the point at which those concerns should’ve resulted in action on Revolut’s part. 
He noted that it had displayed a warning to Mr P, but he didn’t think it was a particularly 
helpful intervention in the circumstances. He considered that it should’ve made enquiries 
with Mr P before allowing the payment to be processed. 
He also considered whether Mr P should bear any responsibility for his own losses but was 
persuaded that it wouldn’t be fair and reasonable for him to do so. He recommended Revolut 
refund 100% of Mr P’s losses from the third payment onwards. 
Revolut disagreed with the Investigator’s view. It made the following arguments: 
 
 
- The warning was sufficiently detailed and should’ve been enough to prevent Mr P 
from going ahead with the payments. 
- Mr P was making payments to his own account. It could reasonably consider those 
payments to be lower risk because they were going to an account in his own name. 
- Mr P was making the payment to another FCA regulated business and so Revolut 
could reasonably have understood the risk to be lower. 
- The fact that Mr P was making payments to his own account means that this incident 
doesn’t fit the criteria for an authorised push payment (APP) scam under the DISP 
rules. That definition specifically requires the customer to have transferred money to 
someone other than themselves. 
- The Investigator had mentioned the circumstances that made Mr P vulnerable, but 
Revolut wouldn’t have had any way of knowing about his wider circumstances at the 
time. It’s therefore unreasonable for that to be a consideration when reaching an 
outcome on the case.  
- Mr P should’ve carried out more research before parting with his money, particularly 
when his investment appeared to be earning disproportionately good returns. He was 
contributorily negligent and so a deduction should be made from any award payable.  
As Revolut disagreed with the Investigator’s view, the complaint was passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 23 August 2024. I wrote: 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding what’s fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations, regulators’ rules, guidance and standards, and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, I must also take into account what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. 
 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that an Electronic Money Institution 
(“EMI”) such as Revolut is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations (in this case the 2017 regulations) and the terms and conditions of the 
customer’s account. 
 
And, as the Supreme Court has recently reiterated in Philipp v Barclays Bank UK 
PLC, subject to some limited exceptions banks have a contractual duty to make 
payments in compliance with the customer’s instructions. 
 
In that case, the Supreme Court considered the nature and extent of the contractual 
duties owed by banks to their customers when making payments. Among other 
things, it said, in summary: 
• The starting position is that it is an implied term of any current account 
contract that, where a customer has authorised and instructed a bank to 
make a payment, it must carry out the instruction promptly. It is not for the bank 
to concern itself with the wisdom or risk of its customer’s payment decisions. 
 
 
 
• At paragraph 114 of the judgment the court noted that express terms of the 
current account contract may modify or alter that position. In Philipp, the 
contract permitted Barclays not to follow its customer’s instructions where it 
reasonably believed the payment instruction was the result of APP fraud; but 
the court said having the right to decline to carry out an instruction was not 
the same as being under a legal duty to do so.    
In this case, the terms of Revolut’s contract with Mr P modified the starting position 
described in Philipp, by expressly requiring Revolut to refuse or delay a payment “if 
legal or regulatory requirements prevent us from making the payment or mean that 
we need to carry out further checks”.   
 
So Revolut was required by the implied terms of its contract with Mr P and the 
Payment Services Regulations to carry out their instructions promptly, except in the 
circumstances set out in its contract, which included where regulatory requirements 
meant it needed to carry out further checks.   
 
Whether or not Revolut was required to refuse or delay a payment for one of the 
reasons set out in its contract, the basic implied requirement to carry out an 
instruction promptly did not in any event mean Revolut was required to carry out the 
authorised push payments immediately1. Revolut could comply with the requirement 
to carry out these payments promptly while still giving fraud warnings, or making 
further enquiries, prior to making the payment. And, I am satisfied that, taking into 
account longstanding regulatory expectations and requirements and what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time, Revolut should in April 2022 fairly 
and reasonably have been on the look-out for the possibility of fraud and have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing payments in some 
circumstances (irrespective of whether it was also required by the express terms of 
its contract to do so). 
 
In reaching the view that Revolut should have been on the look-out for the possibility 
of fraud and have taken additional steps, or made additional checks, before 
processing payments in some circumstances, I am mindful that in practice all banks 
and EMI’s like Revolut do in fact seek to take those steps, often by: 
 
• using algorithms to identify transactions presenting an increased risk of 
fraud;2 
• requiring consumers to provide additional information about the purpose of 
transactions during the payment authorisation process; 
• using the confirmation of payee system for authorised push payments;  
• providing increasingly tailored and specific automated warnings, or in some 
circumstances, human intervention, when an increased risk of fraud is 
identified.  
In reaching my conclusions about what Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have 
done, I am also mindful that: 
 
• Electronic Money Institutions like Revolut are required to conduct their 
business with “due skill, care and diligence” (FCA Principle for Businesses 2), 
 
1 The Payment Services Regulation 2017 Reg. 86 states that “the payer’s payment service provider must ensure that the amount of the payment 
transaction is credited to the payee’s payment service provider’s account by the end of the business day following the time of receipt of the 
payment order” (emphasis added). 
2 For example, Revolut’s website explains it launched an automated anti-fraud system in August 2018: 
https://www.revolut.com/news/revolut_unveils_new_fleet_of_machine_learning_technology_that_has_seen_a_fourfold_reduction_in_card_fraud_
and_had_offers_from_banks_/ 
 
 
“integrity” (FCA Principle for Businesses 1) and a firm “must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems.” (FCA Principle for Businesses 3)3. 
• Over the years, the FCA, and its predecessor the FSA, have published a 
series of publications setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when reviewing measures taken by firms to counter financial 
crime, including various iterations of the “Financial crime: a guide for firms”.  
• Regulated firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money 
laundering and countering the financing of terrorism requirements. Those 
requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk – for 
example through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing 
monitoring of the business relationship (including through the scrutiny of 
transactions undertaken throughout the course of the relationship). I do not 
suggest that Revolut ought to have had concerns about money laundering or 
financing terrorism here, but I nevertheless consider these requirements to be 
relevant to the consideration of Revolut’s obligation to monitor its customer’s 
accounts and scrutinise transactions.   
• The October 2017, BSI Code4, which a number of banks and trade 
associations were involved in the development of, recommended firms look to 
identify and help prevent transactions – particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions – that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.  
Not all firms signed the BSI Code (and Revolut was not a signatory), but the 
standards and expectations it referred to represented a fair articulation of 
what was, in my opinion, already good industry practice in October 2017 
particularly around fraud prevention, and it remains a starting point for what I 
consider to be the minimum standards of good industry practice now 
(regardless of the fact the BSI was withdrawn in 2022).  
• Revolut should also have been aware of the increase in multi-stage fraud, 
particularly involving cryptocurrency when considering the scams that its 
customers might become victim to. Multi-stage fraud involves money passing 
through more than one account under the consumer’s control before being 
sent to a fraudster. Our service has seen a significant increase in this type of 
fraud over the past few years – particularly where the immediate destination 
of funds is a cryptocurrency wallet held in the consumer’s own name. And, 
increasingly, we have seen the use of an EMI (like Revolut) as an 
intermediate step between a high street bank account and cryptocurrency 
wallet.  
Overall, taking into account relevant law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider it fair and reasonable in April 2022 that Revolut should:  
 
• have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including preventing fraud and scams;  
• have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which firms are generally more familiar with than the 
 
3 Since 31 July 2023 under the FCA’s new Consumer Duty package of measures, banks and other regulated firms must act to deliver good 
outcomes for customers (Principle 12), but the circumstances of this complaint pre-date the Consumer Duty and so it does not apply. 
4 BSI: PAS 17271: 2017 ”Protecting customers from financial harm as result of fraud or financial abuse” 
 
 
average customer;   
• in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, or provided additional warnings, 
before processing a payment – (as in practice Revolut sometimes does); and 
• have been mindful of – among other things – common scam scenarios, how 
the fraudulent practices are evolving (including for example the common use 
of multi-stage fraud by scammers, including the use of payments to 
cryptocurrency accounts as a step to defraud consumers) and the different 
risks these can present to consumers, when deciding whether to intervene. 
Should Revolut have recognised that Mr P was at risk of financial harm from fraud? 
 
It isn’t in dispute that Mr P has fallen victim to a cruel scam here, nor that he 
authorised the disputed payments he made to his cryptocurrency wallets (from which 
his funds were subsequently transferred to the scammer). Whilst I have set out in 
detail in this provisional decision the circumstances which led Mr P to make the 
payments using his Revolut account and the process by which that money ultimately 
fell into the hands of the fraudster, I am mindful that Revolut had much less 
information available to it upon which to discern whether any of the payments 
presented an increased risk that Mr P might be the victim of fraud. 
 
Revolut has argued that it could take comfort from the fact that the destination of 
these payments was an account in Mr P’s own name. It’s not clear to me that Revolut 
would have known for certain that the immediate destination of Mr P’s funds was his 
own account – there was no positive ‘Confirmation of Payee’ check, for example. 
Nevertheless, I’m aware that cryptocurrency exchanges like the payee here generally 
stipulate that the card used to purchase cryptocurrency at its exchange must be held 
in the name of the account holder, as must the account used to receive cash 
payments from the exchange. Revolut would have likely been aware of this fact, so I 
accept that, as it claims, it could have reasonably assumed that all of the payments in 
question were to accounts in Mr P’s name. 
 
I also accept that, in general, a firm can treat payments made between accounts 
under a customer’s control as carrying a lower fraud risk. That’s particularly true 
where a payee is well-known and long-standing, but remains true, to a lesser extent, 
where the payee is new or recently created, particularly if the firm can independently 
verify the holder of the destination account (for example, through the Confirmation of 
Payee scheme) or the customer has indicated that they are paying their own 
account. As noted, there wasn’t a Confirmation of Payee match here and Mr P didn’t 
indicate that the payments were going to his own account. So, I think any 
reassurance that Revolut could have taken from its knowledge of the recipient 
account was already fairly limited. 
In addition, it knew that the destination of the payments was a cryptocurrency 
provider. By the time he fell victim to this scam, firms like Revolut ought to have been 
aware of the risk of multi-stage scams involving cryptocurrency. Scams involving 
cryptocurrency have increased over time. The FCA and Action Fraud published 
warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018 and figures published by the latter 
show that losses suffered to cryptocurrency have continued to increase since.  
So, Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have recognised that its customers could 
still be at risk of fraud when using its services to purchase cryptocurrency, 
notwithstanding that the payment would often be made to a cryptocurrency wallet in 
the customer’s own name. In those circumstances, as a matter of what I consider to 
 
 
have been fair and reasonable and good industry practice, Revolut should have had 
appropriate systems for making checks and delivering warnings before it processed 
such payments. 
 
I’ve also taken into account that Mr P opened this account specifically to make 
payments relating to this scam. He told Revolut at that point that the purpose of 
setting up the account was to “make transfers.” That made Revolut’s job here more 
difficult. It lacked a detailed payment history to serve as a basis of comparison when 
deciding if these payments were unusual or out of character. 
 
The first two payments he made in connection with the scam were for £3,000 and 
£7,000 respectively and these payments were made by card. However, the following 
week, he made a payment for £15,000 to a cryptocurrency platform.  He’d already 
transferred £10,000 to a different cryptocurrency firm the previous week. While I 
recognise that Mr P had specifically stated that he’d opened the account to make 
transfers, I think Revolut should have identified a concerning pattern of escalating 
payment values. It should’ve gone further than the written warning it provided.  
 
Even without detailed data regarding a customer’s historic payment behaviour, a 
payment of £15,000 is large enough to be worthy of further scrutiny. I also think it 
ought to have been concerned at the significant increase in the value of the 
payments, something which is and was a known risk signifier with investment scams 
like this one. It was at that point that it should’ve been concerned about the risk Mr P 
might be about to fall victim to a scam. It shouldn’t have processed that payment 
without first making further enquiries to satisfy itself that he wasn’t at risk of financial 
harm due to fraud.  
 
In my view, in line with good industry practice at the time, as well as what I consider 
to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, a proportionate 
intervention at the time of payment 3 would’ve been for an employee of the firm to 
contact Mr P to discuss the payment before deciding whether it should be processed.  
 
What did Revolut do to warn Mr P? 
 
As I explained above, I think Revolut ought to have done more to warn Mr P about 
the risks of fraud when he asked it to make the third payment. I recognise that it did 
attempt to do so by displaying a warning to him during the payment process. Its 
content was driven by information Mr P volunteered about the purpose of the 
payment. The details of its intervention are described in the background section of 
this decision.  
 
The warning made it clear to Mr P that its systems had determined that there was a 
higher-than-normal fraud risk associated with that payment. Mr P could reasonably 
have been expected to be aware that there was a general background risk of fraud. 
He was later presented with a more detailed warning in the form of a list of five items. 
That list is set out above. 
 
The first item in the list said that Mr P should try to verify that the opportunity is 
genuine. In isolation, and given the asymmetry of knowledge between the parties, 
this wasn’t a particularly helpful piece of advice. Recommending that a layperson 
verify if an opportunity is legitimate without pointing to any of the checks that they 
could’ve conducted to do so wouldn’t help to protect them from fraud risk. 
 
Points 2 and 4 highlight things that might be features of investment scams, but they 
weren’t relevant here and so wouldn’t have had any impact on Mr P’s decision 
 
 
making. He hadn’t been promised a better return than might be typically available to 
a retail investor. He’d also found the broker himself, rather than being cold called. 
Point 3 also wasn’t a particularly helpful piece of advice to Mr P, since he was 
purchasing cryptocurrency from a reputable firm, albeit he was then being tricked into 
transferring it to the scammer. Unfortunately, the warning didn’t point to the key 
features of cryptocurrency investment scams, such as the customer being helped by 
a ‘broker’ or ‘trader’ managing their funds on their behalf, the use of remote access 
software or the relatively small initial deposit which then ramped up in value.  
 
I recognise that a warning of this nature would not be able to cover off every 
circumstance that a customer finds themselves in and I don’t suggest that it was 
inadequate because the scam features it highlighted didn’t entirely match Mr P’s 
circumstances. Nonetheless, I’m not persuaded it adequately addressed the typical 
features of this scam type. Having said that, I’m not persuaded that a written warning 
without those shortcomings would’ve changed what Mr P did here. There were 
multiple parties involved at this point (i.e., the scammers themselves and Bank A). 
Bank A had made some unskilful attempts to protect Mr P from the fraud risk across 
multiple telephone conversations. Those conversations created in Mr P a frustration 
at the practical obstacles being placed in his way preventing him from transferring his 
money as he wished, but also an inclination to view such measures as bureaucratic 
and unnecessary. They also did very little to enlighten him as to why those 
conversations were taking place at all. That hamstrung any efforts of Revolut to 
provide him with an impactful written warning at that time. I think his experience up 
until that point meant it was unlikely that he would’ve meaningfully engaged with and 
reflected on the content of a warning displayed by Revolut.  
 
What kind of warning should Revolut have provided? 
 
In the circumstances, I think the proportionate response to the risk was to do more 
than display a written warning. In this instance, I think a human interaction needed to 
take place.  
 
An employee of Revolut should’ve made contact with Mr P to discuss the 
circumstances surrounding the payment request. I’m satisfied that it’s more likely 
than not that he would’ve been open and honest when responding to Revolut’s 
queries. He wasn’t told that he’d need to mislead the firm if it questioned the 
payments with him and the fact that he was willing to be candid with the employees 
of Bank A backs that up.  
 
In the circumstances, I think an employee of the firm would’ve uncovered that the 
likelihood Mr P was at risk of fraud was very high. If it had asked Mr P appropriate 
questions about the investment, Revolut would’ve discovered that he was working 
with a ‘broker’ who claimed to be acting on his behalf and that he was making 
payments into his ‘investment’ using cryptocurrency. This was something he did say 
to Bank A when it spoke to him about the activity on his account. It could also have 
uncovered that he’d been given implausible reassurances about how his account 
would be protected from trading losses. The situation Mr P found himself in had all 
the hallmarks of a cryptocurrency investment scam. Revolut should’ve given him an 
unambiguous warning that it was highly likely he was in the process of falling victim 
to such a scam. It's significant from those calls with Bank A that Mr P clearly had a 
background level of uncertainty and was worried about fraud risk and so I don’t think 
it would’ve taken much to dissuade him from going ahead with the payments 
 
 
 
Is it fair and reasonable for Revolut to be held responsible for Mr P’s loss? 
 
In reaching my decision about what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account 
that Revolut was not the effective point of loss here. Mr P made the payments to a 
separate business which is also a regulated firm. I’ve also taken on board Revolut’s 
argument that it shouldn’t be liable for any shortcomings of any other firm Mr P 
interacted with.  
 
However, as I’ve set out above, I think that Revolut still should have recognised that 
Mr P might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud when he made payment 3, 
and in those circumstances Revolut should have made further enquiries about that 
payment before processing it. If it had done that, I am satisfied it would have 
prevented the losses Mr P suffered. The fact that the money used to fund the scam 
came from elsewhere and wasn’t lost at the point it was transferred to Mr P’s own 
account does not alter that fact and I think Revolut can fairly be held responsible for 
Mr P’s loss in such circumstances. I don’t think there is any point of law or principle 
that says that a complaint should only be considered against either the firm that is the 
origin of the funds or the point of loss. 
 
Revolut has also argued that, since Mr P made these payments to an account in his 
own name, this doesn’t constitute an APP scam as defined in the DISP rules. I’m not 
persuaded that’s relevant to the outcome of the complaint. The DISP rules contain a 
definition of an APP scam for the purpose of delineating this service’s jurisdiction 
over a specific type of complaint. I don’t think it has any bearing on whether Revolut 
acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr P. 
 
I’ve also considered that Mr P has only complained against Revolut and Bank A. He 
hasn’t complained about Payee A or B, which are regulated businesses in their own 
right. I accept that it’s possible that other firms might also have missed the 
opportunity to intervene or failed to act fairly and reasonably in some other way, and 
Mr P could instead, or in addition, have sought to complain against those firms. But 
he has not chosen to do that and ultimately, I cannot compel him to. In those 
circumstances, I can only make an award against Revolut and Bank A. 
I’m also not persuaded it would be fair to reduce Mr P’s compensation in 
circumstances where: the consumer has not complained to every potential 
respondent from which they are entitled to recover their losses in full and where it is 
appropriate to hold a business such as Revolut and Bank A responsible (that could 
have prevented the loss and is responsible for failing to do so). That isn't, to my 
mind, wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the 
fair and reasonable position. 
Ultimately, I must consider the complaint that has been referred to me (not those 
which haven’t been or couldn’t be referred to me) and for the reasons I have set out 
above, I am satisfied that it would be fair to hold Revolut responsible for Mr P’s loss 
from payment 3 (subject to a deduction for Mr P’s own contribution which I will 
consider below and an apportionment of liability between Revolut and Bank A ). 
Should Mr P bear any responsibility for his losses? 
 
In considering this point, I’ve taken into account what the law says about contributory 
negligence as well as what’s fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
 
 
 
Although contributory negligence is subject to an objective test in the courts, in 
considering what’s fair and reasonable I’ve factored in his vulnerability when 
considering the extent of any deduction that should be applied, if any. To be clear, I 
recognise that Revolut didn’t have any knowledge of the wider circumstances that 
underpinned Mr P’s vulnerability. Nonetheless, I think it’s a relevant consideration 
when considering this point. 
 
Several months prior to the scam commencing, Mr P had lost his wife and daughter 
in tragic circumstances. As a consequence, he was extremely isolated. He also told 
an employee of Bank A that his wife had been responsible for managing household 
finances. He suffered with severe depression and has since been given a diagnosis 
of bipolar disorder, a condition which has a well understood association with impaired 
judgement when it comes to financial decision making. 
 
It's noteworthy that he hadn’t been promised a specific return by the fraudster. He 
was told that the returns earned were dependent on market conditions generally and 
so nothing could be guaranteed. He was also persuaded by an apparently 
professional looking website and a fake trading platform. Mr P tells me that he took 
his device into Bank A’s branch and showed the trading platform to a member of its 
staff who didn’t have any obvious concerns with what they saw. I wouldn’t expect an 
employee working in a branch to be able to spot a scam based on that kind of 
evidence, but it would likely have reassured Mr P that he wasn’t falling victim to a 
scam. He found some critical reviews online and queried these with the scammer 
who reassured him that they were a new business and that all firms receive at least 
some negative reviews.  
 
I don’t think it’s at all realistic to think that a person in Mr P’s circumstances wouldn’t 
find they had an impaired ability to critically assess the information that was being 
presented to him and judge what level of risk they were exposing themselves to. I 
recognise that there was no reason for Revolut to have known about the full extent of 
Mr P’s vulnerability at the time. Nonetheless, I think it’s a relevant factor when 
determining whether he acted reasonably in the circumstances. The combination of 
the fraudster’s persuasiveness and Mr P’s personal circumstances persuade me that 
he was simply the unwitting victim of an experienced fraudster. On the particular 
facts of this case, I’m satisfied there was no contributory negligence.  
 
Apportionment of liability 
 
I’m mindful of the fact that Revolut was not the only firm involved in these transfers. 
The process of him losing his money began when he started making transfers from 
his account with Bank A to his account with Revolut. As I’ve explained, I don’t think 
this means Revolut shouldn’t have any liability for the losses he suffered. However, I 
am persuaded that liability should be shared with Bank A.  
 
Mr P has referred a complaint to this service about the actions of Bank A which will 
be decided separately. However, I’m satisfied that Bank A, like Revolut, had ample 
opportunity to protect Mr P from the risk of financial harm here, but failed to do so. 
For that reason, I find that the fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint is for 
both Revolut and Bank A to share 50% liability each for the money Mr P lost to the 
scam. 
 
Other issues 
 
I’ve also considered whether Revolut needs to compensate Mr P for non-financial 
losses. In particular, I’ve looked at the way Revolut handled things when he let it 
 
 
know that he’d fallen victim to the scam. It learned what had happened when Mr P 
responded to its message that sought to clarify the source of his funds.  
 
He responded to say that he’d fallen victim to a scam with very significant losses and 
that he was suicidal. The employee of Revolut responded by directing Mr P to 
communicate with a different team but reiterated the need for him to provide 
evidence of his source of funds. In a later message, he was asked to provide more 
details of his investment in shares. It ought really to have been clear to Revolut that 
Mr P had fallen victim to a scam, and it was asking him to provide evidence of the 
source of all of the money he’d lost. It did this even though he’d told them falling 
victim to the scam had left him suicidal.  
 
The overwhelming majority of the distress Mr P experienced as a result of the scam 
was caused by the fraudster. But to send him those messages at that particular time 
was an unfeeling response which served to rub salt in the wounds. In the 
circumstances, I think Revolut should pay him £400 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
 
Mr P responded to say that he agreed with the provisional decision. Revolut didn’t respond 
until after the deadline of 16 September 2024. It asked for a further two weeks to respond. I 
asked that it ensure any further representations arrive by 2 October 2024. At the time of 
writing, no response has been received. 
Findings 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As no further evidence or arguments have been submitted, I don’t see any reason to depart 
from the findings I reached in the provisional decision. I am, therefore, upholding Mr P’s 
complaint for the reasons set out above. 
Final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I uphold this complaint. If Mr P accepts my final decision, 
Revolut Ltd needs to: 
- Pay £400 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
- Refund 50% of the money Mr P lost to the scam from payment 3 onwards. 
- Add 8% simple interest per annum to those payments calculated to run from the date 
they left his Revolut account until the date any settlement is paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2024.  
   
James Kimmitt 
Ombudsman