DRN-5255210 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs D complains that Metro Bank PLC cancelled her direct debit in error. 
What happened 
Mrs D explains that she gave authority to a merchant for a direct debit payment mandate to 
be set up on 29 October 2024. But that she was told by the merchant that this was cancelled 
as Metro Bank wouldn’t accept it. And then it was said that she’d cancelled it which she 
disputes. This has all caused her stress. 
Metro Bank said that it hadn’t made a mistake. The direct debit was set up on 31 October 
2024 and cancelled on 1 November 2024. It had a system record showing that this was done 
through online banking. It arranged to reinstate the direct debit on 8 November 2024. 
Our investigator didn’t recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he’d seen the 
evidence about the cancellation of the direct debit. So, he didn’t have a basis to find that 
Metro Bank made a mistake. 
Mrs D didn’t agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed and all the telephone 
conversations she had with Metro Bank about this issue obtained. She said she was certain 
that she didn’t cancel the direct debit. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I’ve been provided with five call recordings by Metro Bank which I’ve reviewed. I’ve not 
heard Metro Bank tell Mrs D in those calls that it had been responsible for a mistake. It has 
consistently said to Mrs D that its records show that this cancellation wasn’t made by the 
merchant but through online banking with Mrs D’s details. I also note that Mrs D has been 
absolutely consistent in her account of what happened and in particular that she didn’t 
cancel the direct debit. 
Where there is a dispute like this I need to make my findings based on what I think is most 
likely to have happened on a balance of probabilities. And here whether the evidence 
supports that Metro Bank made a mistake. There didn’t seem to any problem with the direct 
debit itself as I note that Metro Bank was able to reinstate it using the existing details 
provided through the merchant. I note that Mrs D told our investigator that originally the 
merchant had tried to set the direct debit up on her ‘old’ bank account and then she told it to 
use this one. But I’ve not seen a link between that and say any confusion with the merchant 
about which account then to use. The systems record about the direct debit cancellation 
shows that this wasn’t originated by Metro Bank but through online banking. 
Having balanced all the information I’m afraid I don’t have a reasonable basis to find that 
Metro Bank made an error here. So, I won’t be asking it to do anything further. I appreciate 
that Mrs D will be disappointed with this outcome given the time she’s spent in pursuing this 

 
 
and as she’s certain that she didn’t cancel the direct debit. 
My final decision 
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2025. 
   
Michael Crewe 
Ombudsman