DRN-4511111
The complaint
Miss S complains that Metro Bank PLC performed a credit search on her credit file without 
her consent. 
What happened
Miss S says that Metro wrote to her on 31 August 2023 with an account closure notice, but 
on 4 September 2023 they performed a credit search on her credit file. Miss S says that 
Metro had no legitimate reason to carry out a credit search and she had not consented to it. 
Miss S made a complaint to Metro.
Metro did not uphold Miss S’ complaint. They said the credit check was not a hard credit 
search. It was a soft search which they use for background checks and not for lending 
eligibility. Metro said that when these types of searches are run, they are only visible to the 
credit reference agency (CRA) and the named person, and they cannot be viewed by any 
other bank or institution accessing Miss S’ credit file. They said that this type of search has 
no impact on her credit score. 
Metro said they do not need to gain consent to run this type of check as they are required to 
complete regular checks on their customers and carry out ongoing due diligence. They said 
this check was carried out in line with their usual process when ending a banking 
relationship with a customer. Miss S brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss S’ complaint. She said Metro explained that in 
accordance with their due diligence at the time Miss S was going through the account 
closure process, the soft search was completed as part of the regular checks they carry out 
on their customer’s accounts. As Miss S’ account hadn’t closed until November 2023, it is 
possible that her account would be subjected to the standard level of checks and monitoring 
completed by the bank as part of their day-to-day activities.
Our investigator said soft checks are not only used by financial institutions when Miss S is 
enquiring about a credit facility, a soft check can be used as part of the background checks 
that are completed by a business she already has an existing relationship with. She said as 
Miss S was an existing customer and had already agreed to their terms and conditions then 
Metro didn’t require further consent. Miss S asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has made a number of points to this service, and I’ve considered and read everything 
she’s said and sent us. But, in line with this service’s role as a quick and informal body I’ll be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding what’s fair and reasonable here. 
I’d like to explain to Miss S that it is not within this service’s remit to tell a business how they 

should run their procedures, such as when they should run credit checks to meet any legal 
or regulatory duties they need to follow. It would be the role of the regulator – the Financial 
Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Metro to make changes to their policies 
and procedures, if necessary.
This decision will only focus on the credit check that was carried out on Miss S’ credit file, 
and not the account closure, as the account closure has a separate complaint reference at 
our service.
I’ve noted the strength of feeling that Miss S has that Metro should not have carried out the 
credit check and she did not give her consent for them to do so. In addition, they carried out 
the credit check even after they notified her that they were closing her account. 
I’ve looked at Miss S’ application form when she applied for the account in 2018. In the 
declaration section of the application form it says “Your Cash Account will be subject to “Our 
Service Relationship with Personal Customers”.” It also says “Before signing this form you 
should carefully read the document “Our Service Relationship with Personal Customers”. By 
signing this form you acknowledge receipt of the details of Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme Information sheet. If there is any term that you do not understand, then please 
discuss it with a Metro Bank Customer Service Representative before signing.”
Miss S has forwarded to our service a copy of the “Our Service Relationship with Personal 
Customers”. So I’m satisfied that she is aware of this document. So this is the document 
which details the terms and conditions. Section two of this document sets out data privacy 
and Metro will process her personal data. It gives her a website to view this. So I’ve clicked 
on this link to see what they say about how they will process her personal data.
Metro’s privacy policy shows the purpose of processing data and the lawful basis for them 
doing so. One of these purposes is “For security, credit, identification and verification 
purposes.” And the lawful basis for this is given as “Legal obligation (e.g. compliance with 
our Anti-Money Laundering and Know Your Customer obligations)”. So I’m satisfied that 
Metro were entitled to carry out checks on Miss S as part of the agreement – which she 
signed to accept this on 19 March 2018. The privacy policy also sets out data they can share 
with a CRA. The privacy policy shows that Metro:
“We may share your personal data with credit reference agencies:
to check your identity and verify the accuracy of the data you provide to us
to help us understand whether or not we think you can afford any credit facility 
you apply for
to assess your creditworthiness and decide if you are eligible for an account, 
service or facility
to trace and recover debts
to manage your account(s)
to prevent criminal activity, fraud and money laundering.”
So I’m not persuaded that Metro acted outside of the agreed terms/privacy notice by carrying 
out a soft credit search in line with the above scenarios which they set out. In order for them 
to verify the data they conducted a soft search. And this had no impact on Miss S’ credit file 
as no other party apart from the CRA, Metro, or Miss S would be aware of this. And Metro 
confirmed this would not be available to see by a third party such as another bank.
Miss S would have given her consent to Metro doing this when she signed the application 
form, so I’m not persuaded that she needed to provide her consent every time Metro carried 
out one of these checks. As the application form said “If there is any term that you do not 
understand, then please discuss it with a Metro Bank Customer Service Representative 
before signing”, then it would have been proportionate for Miss S to object to this, and not 
sign the application form if she didn’t want Metro to complete these checks. 
But as Miss S signed the application form, then I’m not persuaded that Metro have acted 
outside of how they should have done, even if her account was going to close in November 
2023, the account was still open when they completed the check. So it follows that I don’t 
require Metro to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman