DRN-4989442 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (‘Barclays’) won’t refund the money she lost 
when she says she fell victim to three scams. 
 
What happened 
Miss A says she has fallen victim to three scams and has lost £240,445 between October 
2019 and August 2021. Across the three scams she says she transferred £437,717.14 and 
that she received profits of £197,272.14. Some of the funds transferred were for friends and 
family to invest. 
In October 2019 Miss A she was introduced to an investment opportunity with a company I’ll 
call F. Her friend had been investing with F for some time and told Miss A she was making 
good returns. Miss A’s friend provided a link so that Miss A could register on F’s platform 
and told her F would invest on her behalf. Miss A was told she needed to open an account 
with a cryptocurrency exchange I’ll refer to as C and transfer cryptocurrency from C to the 
platform. Miss A could see the profits she was making on the platform.  
Miss A says she started to invest on 3 October 2019 and continued until around March 2021. 
She says she attempted to contact F between March 2021 and January 2022 but didn’t 
receive a reply and was unable to withdraw her funds.  
Miss A says that the same friend introduced her to a second investment opportunity in March 
2021. I’ll call the company P. She was told she was investing in oil and gas and others who 
had invested in F were also involved. Again, Miss A bought cryptocurrency through C and 
transferred it to P’s platform. In around May 2021 Miss A attempted to make a withdrawal 
but P’s website was removed, and she realised she was the victim of a scam.  
Miss A says that the third scam started in around August 2021. She says that the same 
friend introduced her to a company I’ll refer to as A, and others in a messaging group said 
they were making good profits. Miss A again bought cryptocurrency through C and 
transferred it to A’s platform. Miss A says all three scams were linked. The last payment she 
made towards this scam was in August 2021 and the scammers blocked contact with her in 
October 2021.  
Miss A called Barclays to raise a claim in March 2023 and instructed a professional 
representative to send a letter of complaint in May 2023. She says Barclays failed to protect 
her when she made unusual and out of character payments.  
Barclays hasn’t refunded any of Miss A’s loss. 
Miss A brought a complaint to this service.  
Our investigation so far 
The investigator who considered this complaint didn’t recommend that it be upheld. She said 
Miss A hadn’t demonstrated she was a victim of a scam or her loss. Over a three year period 
Miss A made over 190 payments to a cryptocurrency account in her own name and she 
received nearly £200,000 from this account, which is unusual in a scam. Miss A also said 
she was introduced to the investment opportunities by friends but was unable to provide any 
evidence of her communications with those friends, or of what was agreed with each of the 

 
 
scam companies. The investigator said that an FCA warning in respect of F and negative 
reviews of P didn’t go far enough to show Miss A was the victim of a scam.  
As the investigator felt Miss A hadn’t proved she met the definition of an authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scam set out in the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) 
she said she couldn’t apply it or ask Barclays to refund her.  
Miss A didn’t agree with the investigator’s findings and asked for a final decision, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to review. She referred to the huge financial and 
emotional impact the loss of funds is having on her. Miss A provided some additional 
evidence, including: 
She provided some evidence to demonstrate she was the victim of a scam including: 
- an April 2023 message from F about a delayed withdrawal 
- promotional information from P showing an investment and earnings table 
- a request to verify an account at P 
- P’s about us page 
- an email from A thanking Miss A for registering with them and providing log in details 
- some messages from A’s customer support 
Miss A also made the following points:  
- It is difficult to provide more information because the agreements with the companies 
were on websites that she can no longer access. 
- She feels strongly that she was a victim of a scam and that a portion of the funds she 
invested were returned to her to gain her trust and encourage her to invest more.  
- Miss A provided evidence which she says shows A attempted to manipulate her to 
provide her personal key wallet address to release her capital and interest. C advised 
her not to release her private key, as it would result in the loss of all her money.  
- Miss A said she and other investors didn’t receive the promised payments from P 
because it ceased trading soon after the payments were made. 
- Some individuals didn’t raise claims with their banks because funds were passed 
through Miss A’s account.  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding what’s fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators’ rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, I must also take into account what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.  
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customer’s account. But there are 
circumstances when it might be fair and reasonable for a firm to reimburse a customer even 
when they have authorised a payment.  
But in this case, I haven’t been provided with enough evidence to persuade me Miss A is the 
victim of any of the scams I have referred to above. Miss A has been asked to provide 
evidence including documents like literature and contracts and messages from each of the 
companies involved, as well as messages exchanged with the friend who introduced her to 
 
 
the three investments. But Miss A says that when she realised she was the victim of a scam, 
she deleted almost all messages and that contracts were on websites she can no longer 
access. She also no longer has access to her account with C as C closed her account.  
The very limited information Miss A has provided doesn’t evidence why she made nearly 200 
payments to her account at C or what any of the payments relate to. I don’t even know which 
payments relate to which alleged scam. I also find it very strange that Miss A received nearly 
£200,000 into her Barclays account from her account at C. This is not what I would expect if 
she was the victim of a scam(s).  
Even if I was satisfied that Miss A was the victim of a scam or multiple scams though, I’m not 
persuaded she has demonstrated what her loss is. Miss A received multiple payments from 
third parties, which she transferred to C. So the profits that were returned to Miss A include 
payments to her and to other parties.   
Overall, I’m not satisfied Miss A has demonstrated that the funds she has lost were sent to 
scammers or what her actual loss was. In these circumstances I can’t fairly ask Barclays to 
reimburse her.   
My final decision 
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2024. 
   
Jay Hadfield 
Ombudsman