DRN-4691427
The complaint
Ms B brings this complaint as a representative of the estate of Mr B and complains that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) refused to pay a reasonable interest rate on the balance 
of Mr B’s bank account before probate was issued. 
What happened
Ms B says her father passed away in mid July 2023 and the sizeable sale proceeds of his 
house sale, of in excess of £430,000, was deposited into his bank account the previous day. 
Ms B says when she provided Barclays with the death certificate she discussed transferring  
the funds held on her late father’s current account into an interest-bearing account, but she 
was told that Grant of probate (GOP) would be needed before that could be allowed. 
Ms B says because of the passing of one of the named executors this meant probate could 
be delayed for many weeks, during which time the balance on her late father’s bank account 
would not attract any interest which she felt was unfair. 
Ms B says she wants Barclays to allow the funds to be transferred into a savings account 
that could attract interest at a comparable rate that other customers might expect to receive 
or allow her to transfer the monies to another provider. 
Barclays says its bereavement team carried out the correct process but accepts Ms B could 
have been supported much better as it failed to return a telephone call causing 
inconvenience and she was also given conflicting information regarding placing the funds 
into a savings account. Barclays says it has apologised for this and paid Ms B £150 for that. 
Ms B wasn’t happy with Barclays’ response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didn’t uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Barclays acted fairly and in line with its policy, when it froze the bank 
account of the late Mr B until probate was provided. The investigator says Barclays, outside 
of its normal process, offered to place the funds into a deposit account offering 1% but this 
was declined by Ms B, but the investigator felt Barclays had no obligation to match interest 
rates offered by its competitors.  
The investigator felt as this interest rate was previously offered by Barclays there was no 
reason why it shouldn’t still be available. Barclays during the course of the investigation 
accepted the investigator’s view and provided a breakdown of the interest it would be 
prepared to pay the estate of Mr B. Ms B didn’t agree  with the investigator’s view or 
Barclays’ subsequent offer and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.

Having done so, I won’t be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I was sorry to learn of the passing of Ms B’s father and I can understand this would have 
been an upsetting time for her. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays acted unfairly when it refused to 
transfer the balance of the late Mr B’s bank account into an interest paying savings account 
before probate was granted. 
The first thing to say here is Barclays like most banks would be expected to freeze a 
customer’s bank account on notification of their death, to protect the rightful beneficiaries. In 
this case the late Mr B’s estate was sizeable, so under Barclays’ standard process and of 
most banks, it required sight of the GOP before it would allow the movement of any 
deposited funds held with them. 
While I have some sympathy with Ms B here, given the delays in obtaining probate and the 
timing of the sale of her late father’s property, that doesn’t detract from the fact Barclays had 
no obligation to transfer the sizeable balance of the current account. It’s fair to say this is 
done to protect the rightful beneficiaries of the estate, which can only be certain once 
probate is legally granted. 
What Barclays have accepted is it could have dealt with the handling of Ms B’s requests to 
speak with a manager on the bereavement team more efficiently and that it’s team member 
shouldn’t have suggested it could pay interest on an everyday saver account when that 
wasn’t part of its process in these circumstances. So here I can see Barclays explained this 
to Ms B and then agreed to pay her £150 by way of apology to recognise these service 
failings and I’m satisfied that was fair here. 
Here however, during the course of the investigator’s review of this complaint, it was 
suggested by her that Barclays, having previously told Ms B it would be prepared to offer 
outside of its normal process to place the funds on an everyday saver account, it should now 
pay interest equivalent to this. What hasn’t been made clear is Barclays on reflection, 
without any obligation to do so or acceptance of any error, have now agreed to pay 1% on 
the funds for the period in question totalling £2,185.98.  
While Ms B feels this doesn’t represent what Barclays originally offered, and in any event 
doesn’t go far enough, it’s worth saying Barclays haven’t made any errors here. So, it’s fair 
to say any offer is in effect a gesture of goodwill on Barclays’ part and I’m satisfied it had 
already apologised for the service issues and the confusion over the placing of the funds into 
a savings account and paid Ms B £150 for that. With that in mind I’m satisfied this additional 
payment of interest is more than reasonable here, especially considering it had no obligation 
to make this offer – for the reasons I have already explained.
While Ms B will be disappointed with my decision, I feel this is a fair outcome here and I will 
leave it with her to contact Barclays if she now wishes to accept its interest payment offer.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2024.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman