DRN-4911136 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr and Mrs G complain that Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV (Accelerant) has sought to 
reduce settlement of a claim made under their landlord’s building insurance policy. 
 
Where I’ve referred to Accelerant, this also includes any communication or action by agents 
acting on their behalf. 
 
What happened 
Mr and Mrs G own a property which is let out to tenants, and they have a landlord’s building 
insurance policy underwritten by Accelerant. 
 
In February 2023 Mr and Mrs G discovered malicious damage had been caused to the 
property by unknown individuals (not the tenant), so they made a claim to Accelerant. 
 
Accelerant looked into things, and they concluded Mr and Mrs G were underinsured as the 
rebuilding cost declared was significantly lower than what they say it should have been. As a 
result, Accelerant referred to the policy, which said that in the event of underinsurance, a 
claims settlement would be reduced based on the percentage insured for. Accelerant had 
concluded Mr and Mrs G were 53% underinsured, so they said only 47% of the claim would 
be payable. 
 
As Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with Accelerant’s position, they approached the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.  
 
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint in part. She said that 
she didn’t think Accelerant had reached the wrong decision when concluding that there had 
been a misrepresentation regarding the sum insured.  
 
However, the investigator said that Accelerant had unfairly sought to reduce the claim 
settlement based on the percentage insured. Instead, she said that based on the applicable 
insurance law, Accelerant should be reducing the settlement based on the percentage of 
premiums paid – if that was more favourable to Mr and Mrs G. 
 
Accelerant didn’t agree so the case was passed to me to decide.  
 

 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I’ve reached the same outcome as our investigator. 
 
I’ll also explain that my consideration here is in relation to Accelerant’s actions as the 
insurer. Mr and Mrs G raised a separate complaint about the broker, but my consideration in 
this case is solely in relation to Accelerant. 
 
Mr and Mrs G have a landlord building insurance policy. As the policy is for a property they 
let out and receive income from, the relevant law which applies here is the  
Insurance Act 2015 (the Act).  
 
The Act states that Mr and Mrs G were required to make a fair presentation of the risk to 
Accelerant when taking out (and renewing) their policy. That means disclosing any material 
information Mr and Mrs G knew, or ought to have known. Or failing that, disclosure which 
gave the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent insurer on notice to make further 
enquiries for the purpose of revealing those material circumstances.  
 
If the insured, in this case Mr and Mrs G, fail to make a fair presentation of the risk, the Act 
makes it clear that the insurer needs to decide whether the breach is a ‘qualifying breach’. It 
is a qualifying breach if, but for the breach of the insured’s duty to make a fair presentation, 
the insurer would not have entered into the contract of insurance at all or would have done 
so only on different terms. If the insurer decides it is a qualifying breach, it then needs to 
decide whether it is deliberate or reckless or neither deliberate nor reckless. And this gives 
the insurer certain remedies depending. I’ll consider this further below. 
 
Mr and Mrs G’s policy terms also mention the Act, and separately needing to make a fair 
presentation of the risk and what may happen if they don’t: 
 
“7. MISREPRESENTATION 
You must make a fair presentation of the risk to us. This means you must disclose at 
inception or variation to this Policy and prior to each renewal every material 
circumstance which you know or ought to know and not make misrepresentations to 
us. If you do not make a fair presentation to us, we can: 
 
1. avoid this Policy from inception or renewal if we would not have issued it or 
continued it knowing the true situation 
2. avoid a variation to this Policy if we would not have accepted it had the true 
situation been known 
3. alter the terms of this Policy from the date the non-disclosure or 
misrepresentation was made to those we would have applied had the true 
situation been known 
4. reduce the payment for a claim 
5. cancel this Policy from the date the non-disclosure or misrepresentation was 
made. 
 
This may result in claims not being paid or not being paid in full” 
 
 
 
And in the statement of fact: 
 
“It is your duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to us. This means that you must 
advise any information that may influence us in the acceptance of this insurance and 
the terms provided. This applies prior to the start of cover, any alteration during the 
policy period and prior to each renewal. If you fail to advise us of any incorrect 
information or omissions your policy may not respond the event of a claim.” 
 
And: 
 
“YOUR STATEMENT OF FACT 
 
• Please check your Statement of Fact to ensure all details are accurate and correct 
and that you have advised all important or relevant information which may influence 
our decision to accept this insurance. 
 
• If any information in this Statement of Fact is incorrect or incomplete, please contact 
your Insurance Agent as soon as possible 
 
• If any information declared on your Statement of Fact or Schedule is incorrect or 
incomplete, we may: 
- cancel or void your policy 
- change the terms of your policy 
- refuse to deal with all or part of any claim or reduce the amount of any claim 
payment” 
 
Was there a misrepresentation by Mr and Mrs G and did they breach their duty to make a 
fair presentation of the risk? 
 
When Mr and Mrs G’s policy was renewed with Accelerant, the sum insured (which had 
been index linked and increased from previous years) was declared as £92,306. Accelerant 
says that when asked, Mr and Mrs G didn’t declare an accurate rebuild value of the property 
to be insured.  
 
The following was reflected in their policy documents: 
 
What is the total rebuilding cost?   £92306 
 
Directly underneath this on the documents, it explained what was meant by rebuild cost: 
 
“The full rebuilding cost of your buildings means the cost of rebuilding if the buildings 
were completely destroyed. This is not necessarily the market value of the property.” 
 
When validating the claim, Accelerant estimated the rebuild value should have been, at the 
least, £195,000. Whilst this was at the date of loss rather than the most recent renewal date, 
it was within the same policy period. So, on balance, I find this is likely to have been a more 
reasonable estimate than the £100,000 less that was actually declared on the policy at 
renewal. And I haven’t seen any other valuations or estimates which supports that lower 
amount either. 
 
 
 
It was Mr and Mrs G’s responsibility to provide a rebuild value to Accelerant (or correct what 
was declared at renewal if it wasn’t sufficient). This is outlined in Mr and Mrs G’s policy 
documents: 
 
“Declared Sums Insured 
Correct values at risk must be advised to us. If the sums insured you request are not 
adequate this will result in the amount we pay in the event of a claim being reduced. 
You should review your sums insured and levels of cover regularly to ensure these 
remain adequate.” 
 
Mr and Mrs G have said they think Accelerant should be determining the rebuild value for 
them, however, the duty was on them to make a fair presentation to Accelerant.  
 
The renewal documents highlighted the importance of the correct rebuild value, what may 
happen if this was incorrect, and also gave direction of how Mr and Mrs G may be able to 
obtain this: 
 
“Adequacy of Insurance Values 
It is the responsibility of the insured to ensure that all sums insured & policy limits are 
adequate. It is strongly recommended that an appropriate professional 
(e.g.surveyor/accountant) be consulted to ensure the sums insured & limits under the 
policy are suitable.” 
 
I can’t reasonably conclude that Mr and Mrs G made a fair presentation of the risk as it 
seems they, wrongly, assumed Accelerant would determine the rebuild value for them, and 
therefore didn’t attempt to establish what an accurate rebuild sum insured should be. So, I’m 
of the view that Mr and Mrs G breached their duty to make a fair presentation of the risk. 
 
Was the breach qualifying? 
 
Under the Act, there are certain remedies available to insurers in the event of a breach of the 
duty of fair presentation. But only where the insurer can demonstrate that, but for the breach, 
it: 
 
• would not have entered into the contract of insurance at all, or 
• would have done so only on different terms. 
 
A breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the insured is referred to as a qualifying 
breach. 
 
Accelerant confirmed that had a more accurate rebuild sum been provided, they would have 
charged more for the policy. They haven’t calculated exactly what that would have been for 
the year in question, but when they updated the current policy year, this resulted in a 
significant uplift in premiums, so on balance there would also have been a significant uplift 
the year before too. And given the amount underinsured, the rise was reflective of that.  
 
Whilst I haven’t been given the exact figures as they haven’t been calculated yet, I’m 
persuaded that there is a qualifying breach because Accelerant would have acted differently 
by charging higher premiums (exact amount to be calculated) if the rebuild sum declared 
was more reasonable. 
 
 
 
Was the breach deliberate of reckless, or neither deliberate nor reckless? 
 
The remedies available to Accelerant under the Act depend on whether they consider the 
breach of the duty was deliberate or reckless, or neither. And it is for Accelerant (as the 
insurer) to show that the breach was deliberate or reckless. 
 
A qualifying breach is deliberate or reckless if the insured – 
 
• knew that it was a breach of the duty of fair presentation, or 
• did not care whether or not it was in breach of that duty. 
 
The remedies available for a breach that is deliberate or reckless state the insurer – 
 
• may avoid the contract and refuse all claims, and 
• need not return any premiums 
 
Accelerant has neither sought to avoid the policy or refuse the claim. Instead, it’s sought to 
reduce the claim settlement. So based on the actions Accelerant took, I think it’s reasonable 
to conclude that they ultimately considered the breach to be neither deliberate nor reckless. 
And this is more favourable than treating it as deliberate or reckless, so I think Accelerant 
has acted fairly by doing so. 
 
The available remedies 
 
Under the Act, where the qualifying breach is neither deliberate or reckless, and an insurer 
would have charged higher premiums, they can proportionately settle the claim based on the 
percentage of premiums paid against what should have been had there been a fair 
presentation. 
 
However, Accelerant has sought to rely on a policy term to reduce the claim settlement in a 
different way, based on the percentage of the sum Mr and Mrs G were insured for, which 
was calculated to be 47%, rather than the percentage of premiums paid. On the face of it, 
this is contrary to the relevant law. 
 
Contracting out 
 
The Act does contain a ‘contracting out’ section. This means that an insurer can choose to 
include and rely on policy terms which aren’t consistent with the Act.  
 
Accelerant seeks to rely on the following term in the statement of fact to reduce the claim 
settlement: 
 
“If you make a claim and your sum insured is not enough we will only be able to 
settle claims at the percentage you are insured for. For example if the buildings sum 
insured only represents 70 % of the full rebuilding cost then we will not pay more 
than 70 % of your claim. The full rebuilding cost of your buildings means the cost of 
rebuilding if the buildings were completely destroyed. This is not necessarily the 
market value of the property.” 
 
This is different to the remedy in the Act as the calculation is based on the percentage 
insured for, rather than the percentage of premiums paid. 
 
Whilst the Act does include a section which means an insurer can ‘contract out’, to be able to 
do so it needs to meet the ‘transparency requirements’. These are: 
 
 
 
• The policy term must be clear and unambiguous in its effect 
• The insurer must take sufficient steps to draw to the attention of the insured the 
disadvantageous policy term 
 
The term itself is in the policy statement of fact and does appear clear and unambiguous in 
my view. But having said that, it’s not actually in the full policy terms and conditions. 
However, it should also be sufficiently drawn to Mr and Mrs G’s attention. Whilst the term is 
in the statement of fact, I don’t think it has been sufficiently drawn to Mr and Mrs G’s 
attention that this term may be disadvantageous, or that they are entering into a contract 
with agreement that claims would be settled relying on average, rather than the Act, which 
could be disadvantageous to them. 
 
Therefore, in principle, I’m not satisfied the ‘transparency requirements’ have been met to be 
able to ‘contract out’, or consequently, that Accelerant has acted fairly by applying this term 
rather than the remedies under the Act, which would be proportionate based on the 
premiums. So that’s how I’d expect Accelerant to settle the claim – unless acting outside of 
the Act treats Mr and Mrs G more favourably than the Act requires. 
  
However, our investigator asked Accelerant what the premium would have been had a more 
reasonable estimate of the rebuild sum insured been declared at renewal 2022. But despite 
requesting confirmation, Accelerant hasn’t provided this. Therefore, I can’t be certain that 
applying average in line with the terms actually disadvantages Mr and Mrs G more than the 
proportionate settlement remedy outlined in the Act. 
 
Therefore, if the proportionate remedy in the Act puts Mr and Mrs G into a better position 
than applying average, this is how Accelerant will need to settle their claim. If not, it’s 
existing offer will treat them fairly. So, if Mr and Mrs G accept my final decision, Accelerant 
will need to calculate what the premiums should have been and settle the claim in whichever 
way is more favourable to Mr and Mrs G. 
 
My final decision 
It’s my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Accelerant Insurance 
Europe SA/NV to: 
 
• Calculate what the premium would’ve been at the 2022 renewal based on what the 
rebuild sum insured ought reasonably to have been estimated as at that time. 
• If applying the proportionate remedy under the Insurance Act 2015 is more 
favourable to Mr and Mrs G than applying average, Accelerant will need to settle the 
claim in this way instead. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2024. 
   
Callum Milne 
Ombudsman