DRN-4877862
The complaint
Miss A complains about the settlement offer made by Fortegra Europe Insurance Company 
Ltd after she made a claim under her furniture protection insurance policy. She’s also 
unhappy with Fortegra’s handling of the claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fortegra’s latest settlement offer (to reselect furniture) was based on 100% of the 
cost of both the sofa and the armchair. These items were damaged and couldn’t be 
repaired, so I agree this was reasonable and was in line with the policy terms. 
Fortegra settlement offer (to reselect furniture) also included 50% of the cost of the 
footstool. I think Fortegra’s offer here was fair. The footstool wasn’t damaged, but it 
does match the other damaged items that Miss A needs to replace. So I think it was 
appropriate for Fortegra to make a contribution towards the replacement of this item, 
and 50% seems reasonable to me. 
Fortegra made a number of errors with its handling of the claim. When a repair 
couldn’t be done, it ordered the replacement parts from the manufacturer. However, it 
ordered the wrong part for the armchair. After the sofa was repaired, Miss A told 
Fortegra she was unhappy with the repair, but it didn’t arrange for anyone to inspect 
the work that had been done. Miss A then had to wait around four months for a 
replacement part for the armchair, only to then be told it wasn’t available. Fortegra 
then made her a settlement offer, but this was incorrect (which Fortegra accepts). 
Fortegra then took another six months to make an appropriate settlement offer, which 
was over a year after the claim was initially made. 
Miss A has explained how stressful and frustrating she has found the claim. Fortegra 
had already offered £300 compensation, but given the impact to Miss A that she’s 
described, I think an additional £100 would be fair here. We’ve let Miss A know this 
(as this is £100 less than that recommended by our investigator). Whilst I understand 
she thinks a higher award of compensation ought to made, I’m satisfied total 
compensation of £400 is appropriate in these circumstances and recognises the 
upset she was caused and that her furniture has had the damage for some time.     
Miss A has also complained that Fortegra’s technician was rude when he visited her 
home. I see that Fortegra asked the technician about the visit, but he had no reason 
to think Miss A had been unhappy with him. As I don’t have clear evidence about this 

and both parties have different recollections of the visit, I can’t conclude that it’s more 
likely than not that Fortegra’s technician did anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fortegra Europe Insurance 
Company Ltd to pay Miss A £400 compensation (less any amount it may have already paid 
in this respect).*
*Fortegra must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss A 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman