DRN-4819128 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr S is unhappy with how Clear Score Technology Limited are displaying information on his 
credit file. 
 
What happened 
For context and as per Clear Score’s website, Clear Score aren’t a Credit Reference Agency 
(CRA). Instead, Clear Score gets a customer’s credit score and report from one of the three 
CRA’s in the UK, who I’ll refer to as “E”. The service Clear Score provides is to allow 
customers free access to the data that E holds. 
 
Mr S says his Clear Score credit report shows one hard search had been carried out on his 
credit file. So, because of this, Mr S says he applied for multiple forms of credit. However, Mr 
S says this was different to what his credit report with a CRA I’ll refer to as “B” was showing 
– this showed ten hard searches and not just one.  
 
Mr S says Clear Score should make clear different companies use different CRA’s so that 
customers can check with those CRA’s before applying for credit, as Clear Score only shows 
information from E. Mr S says his credit score with Clear Score is poor and that he doesn’t 
have the ability to apply for other credit due to the missing searches having a negative 
impact on his score. 
 
Clear Score say not all lenders report information to all three CRA’s, which is why 
information can vary across Mr S’ credit reports. Clear Score said the service they provide 
gives Mr S free access to his credit report from E, not B. So, discrepancies between Mr S’ 
Clear Score report and his report with B are to be expected. Clear Score also told Mr S that 
lenders refer to CRA’s when completing credit checks during credit applications and not 
Clear Score. 
 
Our Investigator looked into Mr S’ concerns. In summary he said Clear Score have explained 
to Mr S that the service they provide is to display information reported to E by data providers. 
And that the searches which appeared on Mr S’ credit report with B were not given to E by 
the data providers, which then resulted in them not all showing on Mr S’ Clear Score credit 
report. Our Investigator also said that Mr S’ Clear Score credit score is for his information 
only and that his credit score is an illustration of how Clear Score thinks a lender might 
consider Mr S’ credit history. Our Investigator said as lenders wouldn’t have access to Mr S’ 
credit score, it can’t directly affect his potential credit worthiness. 
 
Mr S responded and said Clear Score’s website says “the higher the score, the better you 
look to lenders” which he says implies lenders can see his credit score. Mr S provided us 
with a screenshot of Clear Score’s website stating this phrase. So, Mr S questioned what our 
Investigator meant by saying that his credit score is an only an illustration.  
 
Our Investigator reviewed the information provided by Mr S and said he thinks Clear Score 
are saying in their opinion, the better the score, the better Mr S would look to lenders. And 
that lenders make their own lending decisions based on information provided to the CRA’s.  

 
 
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review his concerns. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can appreciate Mr S’ concern that what he sees on his credit report with Clear Score in 
relation to hard searches, is different to what he sees on his credit report with B. And I note 
Mr S’ point that he wasn’t aware other agencies provide different information and that Clear 
Score ought to make this clear. As Clear Score have explained to Mr S directly and also as 
set out on their website, not all lenders report and share their information with all of the 
CRA’s. This is more likely than not the reason why Mr S may see a difference in what his 
credit report is showing across different CRA’s. Having considered what Clear Score have 
said, I don’t find this explanation to be unreasonable as Clear Score aren’t in control of what 
lenders report directly to the CRA’s. 
 
I’ve read the sentence Mr S has referred to on Clear Score’s website and can understand 
why he’s come to the conclusion that this implies lenders can see his credit score. However, 
to clarify lenders see data provided in a credit file, but a customer’s credit score isn’t visible 
to them and is only visible to a customer. From my knowledge of credit scores, the number 
given is an indication of how a typical lender might view a customer, based on their credit 
history. And it’s calculated using the relevant algorithms the CRA or company, such as Clear 
Score, use. This differs across the different companies. 
 
Mr S is concerned his credit score is negatively impacted by missing searches. However, a 
credit score can be determined by many factors for example, opening or closing accounts, 
not just missing searches. As I’ve explained, the score is only seen by customers 
themselves. Additionally, as Clear Score’s website explains, lenders use E or one of the 
other CRA’s to make decisions about whether to lend to a customer, they don’t use Clear 
Score. So even if Mr S’ Clear Score credit score has been negatively impacted as Mr S has 
told us and even if lenders could see his Clear Score credit score, which I’ve already 
explained they can’t, they take information directly from CRA’s when deciding whether to 
lend. So, to reassure Mr S, his Clear Score report shouldn’t directly affect his credit 
worthiness as it isn’t looked at by lenders and I’m not persuaded Mr S has been declined 
credit as a result of his Clear Score credit score. 
 
If Mr S has concerns about missing searches on his Clear Score credit report, he’d need to 
raise a dispute with E through Clear Score as set out on Clear Score’s website. As 
previously explained, this is because the service Clear Score provide is to show Mr S his 
credit information provided by E. So, Clear Score can’t change any of the information 
themselves. 
 
I note Mr S has said Clear Score haven’t been very transparent and open with their services. 
A lot of what Clear Score do and where they get data from is on their website, should Mr S 
wish to look at this. 
 
My final decision 
For reasons explained above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2024. 
   
Leanne McEvoy 
Ombudsman