DRN-5102051 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr B is being represented by a claims manager. He’s complaining about Revolut Ltd 
because it declined to refund money he lost as a result of fraud. 
What happened 
Sadly, Mr B fell victim to a cruel job scam. He was approached by somebody on WhatsApp 
and offered a role with a company that required him to complete tasks to simulate purchases 
on the company’s platform. He was required to pay to access sets of tasks and the cost of 
these kept increasing. When he tried to withdraw, he was told he needed to pay tax on his 
earnings and still didn’t receive any money after he did this. This is when he realised it was a 
scam. Mr B made the following payments to the scam: 
 
No. Date (2023) Type Payee Amount £ 
1 27 Feb card crypto provider 1 600 
2 28 Feb card crypto provider 1 100 
3 1 Mar transfer individual 1 200 
4 1 Mar card crypto provider 1 500 
5 2 Mar transfer individual 2 4,000 
6 2 Mar transfer individual 3 1,931.29 
7 2 Mar transfer individual 3 1,919 
8 2 Mar transfer individual 3 1,919 
9 2 Mar transfer individual 3 1,919 
10 2 Mar transfer individual 3 306.03 
11 2 Mar transfer individual 3 101 
12 17 Mar transfer crypto provider 2 5,000 
13 17 Mar transfer crypto provider 3 7,000 
14 17 Mar transfer crypto provider 4 6,000 
 
Where fees were charged by Revolut, I’ve included these in the payment amounts quoted 
above. I understand the payments to individuals were peer-to-peer purchases of 
cryptocurrency. Mr B also made a payment of £500 to cryptocurrency provider 2 on 1 March, 
but this was refunded in full straight away and I haven’t included it in the above table. 
 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be partly upheld. He felt Revolut should have 
contacted Mr B to discuss the purpose of payment 9 and, if it had done so, he felt the scam 
would have been uncovered and stopped at that point. He proposed Revolut should refund 
payments 9 to 14 with a reduction to account for Mr B’s own contribution to his losses. 
 
Mr B accepted the investigator’s assessment. Revolut didn’t accept and made the following 
key points: 
 
• The fraud didn’t originate or occur on Revolut’s platform and it was only an 
intermediary in the process. It’s irrational to hold it responsible in these 
circumstances. 
 

 
 
• It doesn’t owe a duty to prevent fraud and scams and its responsibility for protecting 
customers has been over-stated. 
 
• It has a duty to execute legitimate payment instructions and its not required to assess 
their commercial wisdom or any potential for loss, as outlined in the legal case of 
Philipp v Barclays Bank. 
 
• The recently introduced reimbursement rules wouldn’t require it to reimburse in this 
situation. 
 
• We can’t be certain that an intervention of the type described by the investigator 
would have stopped the scam. This conclusion is based on supposition. 
 
• We should also be considering the actions of Mr B’s bank, which is where the above 
payments originated before they were transferred to Revolut. 
 
The complaint has now been referred to me for review. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I’ve reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. In deciding what’s fair and reasonable, I’m required to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators’ rules, guidance and standards, and codes 
of practice; and, where appropriate, I must also take into account what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. I haven’t necessarily commented on every single 
point raised but concentrated instead on the issues I believe are central to the outcome of 
the complaint. This is consistent with our established role as an informal alternative to the 
courts. 
 
In this case, there’s no dispute that Mr B authorised the above payments. 
 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that an Electronic Money Institution (EMI) such 
as Revolut is expected to process payments a customer authorises it to make, in 
accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of their 
account. In this context, ‘authorised’ essentially means the customer gave the business an 
instruction to make a payment from their account. In other words, they knew that money was 
leaving their account, irrespective of where that money actually went. 
 
And, as the Supreme Court has recently reiterated in Philipp v Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
subject to some limited exceptions banks have a contractual duty to make payments in 
compliance with the customer’s instructions. 
 
In that case, the Supreme Court considered the nature and extent of the contractual duties 
owed by banks to their customers when making payments. Among other things, it said, in 
summary: 
 
• The starting position is that it is an implied term of any current account contract that, 
where a customer has authorised and instructed a bank to make a payment, it must 
carry out the instruction promptly. It is not for the bank to concern itself with the 
wisdom or risk of its customer’s payment decisions. 
 
 
 
• At paragraph 114 of the judgment the court noted that express terms of the current 
account contract may modify or alter that position. In Philipp, the contract permitted 
Barclays not to follow its consumer’s instructions where it reasonably believed the 
payment instruction was the result of APP fraud; but the court said having the right to 
decline to carry out an instruction was not the same as being under a legal duty to do 
so. 
 
In this case, the terms of Revolut’s contract with Mr B modified the starting position 
described in Philipp, by expressly requiring Revolut to refuse or delay a payment “if legal or 
regulatory requirements prevent us from making the payment or mean that we need to carry 
out further checks” (Section 20). 
 
So, Revolut was required by the implied terms of its contract with Mr B and the Payment 
Services Regulations to carry out his instructions promptly, except in the circumstances set 
out in its contract, which included where regulatory requirements meant it needed to carry 
out further checks.   
 
Whether or not Revolut was required to refuse or delay a payment for one of the reasons set 
out in its contract, the basic implied requirement to carry out an instruction promptly did not 
in any event mean Revolut was required to carry out the payments immediately1. Revolut 
could comply with the requirement to carry out payments promptly while still giving fraud 
warnings, or making further enquiries, prior to making the payment.  
 
And I am satisfied that, taking into account longstanding regulatory expectations and 
requirements and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Revolut 
should in February and March 2023 fairly and reasonably have been on the look-out for the 
possibility of fraud and have taken additional steps, or made additional checks, before 
processing payments in some circumstances (irrespective of whether it was also required by 
the express terms of its contract to do so). 
 
In reaching the view that Revolut should have been on the look-out for the possibility of fraud 
and have taken additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing payments in 
some circumstances, I am mindful that in practice all banks and EMI’s like Revolut do in fact 
seek to take those steps, often by: 
 
• using algorithms to identify transactions presenting an increased risk of fraud;2 
• requiring consumers to provide additional information about the purpose of 
transactions during the payment authorisation process; 
• using the confirmation of payee system for authorised push payments; and 
• providing increasingly tailored and specific automated warnings, or in some 
circumstances human intervention, when an increased risk of fraud is identified.  
 
In reaching my conclusions about what Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have done, I 
am also mindful that:  
 
• Electronic Money Institutions like Revolut are required to conduct their business with 
 
1 The Payment Services Regulation 2017 Reg. 86(1) states that “the payer’s payment service provider 
must ensure that the amount of the payment transaction is credited to the payee’s payment service 
provider’s account by the end of the business day following the time of receipt of the payment 
order” (emphasis added).  
2 For example, Revolut’s website explains it launched an automated anti-fraud system in August 
2018:https://www.revolut.com/news/revolut_unveils_new_fleet_of_machine_learning_technology_that
_has_seen_a_fourfold_reduction_in_card_fraud_and_had_offers_from_banks_/ 
 
 
 
“due skill, care and diligence” (FCA Principle for Businesses 2), “integrity” (FCA 
Principle for Businesses 1) and a firm “must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems” (FCA Principle for Businesses 3)3. 
 
• Over the years, the FCA, and its predecessor the FSA, have published a series of 
publications setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor practice found 
when reviewing measures taken by firms to counter financial crime, including various 
iterations of the “Financial crime: a guide for firms”. 
  
• Regulated firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money 
laundering and countering the financing of terrorism requirements. Those 
requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk – for example 
through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship). I do not suggest that Revolut ought to 
have had concerns about money laundering or financing terrorism here, but I 
nevertheless consider these requirements to be relevant to the consideration of 
Revolut’s obligation to monitor its customer’s accounts and scrutinise transactions. 
   
• The October 2017, BSI Code4, which a number of banks and trade associations were 
involved in the development of, recommended firms look to identify and help prevent 
transactions – particularly unusual or out of character transactions – that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam.  Not all firms signed the BSI Code (and 
Revolut was not a signatory), but the standards and expectations it referred to 
represented a fair articulation of what was, in my opinion, already good industry 
practice in October 2017 particularly around fraud prevention, and it remains a 
starting point for what I consider to be the minimum standards of good industry 
practice now (regardless of the fact the BSI was withdrawn in 2022). 
 
• Revolut should also have been aware of the increase in multi-stage fraud, particularly 
involving cryptocurrency when considering the scams that its customers might 
become victim to. Multi-stage fraud involves money passing through more than one 
account under the consumer’s control before being sent to a fraudster. Our service 
has seen a significant increase in this type of fraud over the past few years – 
particularly where the immediate destination of funds is a cryptocurrency wallet held 
in the consumer’s own name. And, increasingly, we have seen the use of an EMI 
(like Revolut) as an intermediate step between a high street bank account and 
cryptocurrency wallet 
 
Overall, taking into account relevant law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider it fair 
and reasonable in February and March 2023 that Revolut should:  
 
• have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including preventing fraud and scams; 
• have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
 
3 Since 31 July 2023 under the FCA’s new Consumer Duty package of measures, banks and other 
regulated firms must act to deliver good outcomes for customers (Principle 12), but the circumstances 
of this complaint pre-date the Consumer Duty and so it does not apply. 
4 BSI: PAS 17271: 2017” Protecting customers from financial harm as result of fraud or financial 
abuse” 
 
 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which firms are generally more familiar with than the average customer;  
• have been mindful of – among other things – common scam scenarios, how the 
fraudulent practices are evolving (including for example the common use of multi 
stage fraud by scammers, including the use of payments to cryptocurrency accounts 
as a step to defraud consumers) and the different risks these can present to 
consumers, when deciding whether to intervene; and 
• in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, or provided additional warnings, before 
processing a payment – (as in practice Revolut sometimes does). 
 
Taking these points into account, I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr B. 
 
This analysis is focussed on the situation regarding transfers as this was the nature of the 
payment where I think Revolut should have been able to stop the fraud for reasons I’ll come 
to. I appreciate the situation is slightly different for card payments but I haven’t covered this 
here as the differences don’t affect my view on the outcome of the complaint. 
 
Should Revolut have recognised that Mr B was at risk of financial harm from fraud? 
 
One of the key features of a Revolut account is that it facilitates payments that often involve 
large amounts and sometimes to overseas accounts and cryptocurrency. I’m also conscious 
this was a new account and there was no history of past activity. 
 
Having considered what Revolut knew about payments 1 to 8 at the time it received Mr B’s 
instructions, I’m not persuaded it ought to have been concerned about them. While there 
were some payments to cryptocurrency providers, which can indicate a greater risk of fraud, 
the amounts involved were relatively low. And although the amounts involved in the other 
payments were higher, these were to individuals and it’s not clear that Revolut would have 
known Mr B was actually purchasing cryptocurrency. 
 
By the time of payment 9, however, Revolut would have seen that Mr B had instructed 
transfers totalling nearly £12,000 in a single day. And payments 6 to 9 were all instructed 
within the space of half an hour. With no account history it could point to that suggested this 
was normal account activity for Mr B, I think this pattern should have led Revolut to conclude 
he was at risk of harm from fraud. 
 
What did Revolut do to warn Mr B? 
 
Revolut has explained that it showed a warning each time Mr B set up a new payee on the 
account that read: 
 
Do you know and trust this payee?  
 
If you’re unsure, don’t pay them, as we may not be able to help you get your money 
back. Remember, fraudsters can impersonate others, and we will never ask you to make 
a payment. 
 
Revolut also says that it asked Mr B about the purpose of payments 12 to 14 and also the 
payment to cryptocurrency provider 2 on 1 March that was returned. Unfortunately, it no 
longer has a record of Mr B’s responses. But it does say that each time it asked this 
question, Mr B would have been shown a series of dynamic educational stories about fraud 
and scams. 
 
 
 
I’ve considered these warnings carefully but I think they’re generic in nature. They don’t 
speak to any particular type of scam and wouldn’t have likely resonated with Mr B as he 
wouldn’t have recognised his own situation. Prior to payment 9, I think this type of warning 
was reasonable and proportionate. But for the reasons I’ve said above, I think Revolut 
should have identified the risk of harm from fraud had significantly increased by the time it 
received the instruction for payment 9 and that a more robust intervention was required at 
that point. 
 
What kind of warning should Revolut have provided? 
 
Having thought carefully about the risk presented by payment 9, I think a proportionate 
response to that risk would have been for Revolut to have attempted to establish the 
circumstances surrounding the payment before allowing it to debit Mr B’s account. I think it 
should have done this by, for example, directing him to its in-app chat to discuss the 
payment further. 
 
If Revolut had provided a warning of the type described, would that have prevented the 
losses Mr B suffered from payment 9? 
 
Revolut has referred to the investigator’s conclusion on this point as ‘supposition’ and we 
clearly can’t know for certain what would have happened. But, on the balance of 
probabilities, I think it’s more likely than not that an appropriate intervention before payment 
9 was processed would have led to the fraud being uncovered and this payment being 
stopped. 
 
From the evidence provided, including extracts of Mr B’s chats with the scammer, I’ve seen 
no evidence that he was given a cover story or encouraged to lie to the bank if asked about 
the purpose of the payments he was making. So, on balance, I think it’s likely he would have 
been honest and explained that he was purchasing cryptocurrency to obtain online work. 
 
If Mr B had given this information, Revolut could have asked more questions and should 
have been able to recognise the arrangement he was describing had many of the hallmarks 
of a job scam. It could then have provided a tailored warning listing some of the common 
features of this type of scam. For example that victims are often approached online by 
someone they’ve not met, they don’t receive a contract of employment, they’re asked to pay 
for tasks using cryptocurrency, and that the amounts they’re asked to pay to access tasks 
increases over time. 
 
If Mr B had received such a warning, I think he’d have recognised many of the common 
features of a job scam in his own situation and this would have resonated with him. On 
balance, I think it’s more likely than not that he would have realised as this point that he had 
fallen victim to a scam and he would have told Revolut not to continue with the payment. I 
think it follows that if the scam had been uncovered at the point of payment 9, payments 10 
to 14 would also have been prevented. 
 
What about the actions of Mr B’s bank? 
 
This was a multi-stage fraud that saw Mr B move money from his bank to Revolut and then 
eventually onto the scammer. This complaint is about Revolut and it’s not appropriate for me 
to comment here on whether or not the bank should have identified he was at risk of harm 
from fraud and whether it reacted proportionately. But to obtain a full picture of what took 
place, we have contacted Mr B’s bank to establish if it attempted any kind of intervention 
before transferring his money to Revolut and, if so, how this affects my assessment of 
whether or not he acted reasonably in the circumstances. 
 
 
 
Mr B’s bank has told us that it didn’t apply any restrictions to the relevant payments aside 
from showing a generic warning when he first registered Revolut as a new payee. It also told 
us that Mr B hasn’t complained to the bank about its role in transferring his money.  
 
On balance, I don’t think there was any intervention by Mr B’s bank that should particularly 
have alerted him to the fact he was speaking to a scammer or that changes my views about 
how Revolut should have dealt with this situation and whether he acted reasonably in the 
circumstances with which he was faced. 
 
Is it fair and reasonable for Revolut to be held responsible for some of Mr B’s loss?  
 
In reaching my decision about what’s fair and reasonable, I have taken into account that the 
payments didn’t go directly to the scammer and there were further steps before the money 
was lost.  
 
However, for the reasons I’ve set out above, I’m satisfied it would be fair to hold Revolut 
responsible for Mr B’s loss from payment 9, subject to a deduction for his own contribution 
towards this. As I’ve explained, the potential for multi-stage scams ought to have been well 
known to Revolut. And as a matter of good practice, I consider it fair and reasonable that it 
should have been on the look-out for payments presenting an additional scam risk including 
those involving multi-stage scams.  
 
I have also taken into account that other businesses were involved in the overall process 
that ended up with payments being made to the scammer, and that Mr B might potentially 
have a claim against them in in respect of their actions (although those businesses are not a 
party to this complaint and so I make no finding about their role here). 
 
Whilst the dispute resolution rules (DISP) give me the power (but do not compel me) to 
require a financial business to pay a proportion of an award in circumstances where a 
consumer has made complaints against more than one financial business about connected 
circumstances, Mr B has not referred a complaint about any other business to me and DISP 
does not empower me to instruct him to make or refer a complaint to me about another 
business. 
 
As Revolut has pointed out, I’m aware that the Payment Service Regulator’s (“PSR”) 
mandatory reimbursement scheme wouldn’t necessarily require it to reimburse Mr B. But I 
don’t consider that this means that it shouldn’t compensate Mr B in circumstances where it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably, as I have found was the case here. The scheme doesn’t 
preclude me from considering whether Revolut failed to act fairly and reasonably when it 
made payment 9 without providing an appropriate warning to Mr B. As explained, I’m 
satisfied Revolut should fairly and reasonably have made further enquires and provided a 
more robust warning before processing the payment. If it had, it’s more likely than not that 
the scam would have been exposed and Mr B wouldn’t have lost any more money. In those 
circumstances I am satisfied it is fair to hold Revolut responsible for at least some of his loss. 
 
Indeed, the PSR has recently reminded firms that fraud victims have a right to make 
complaints and refer them to the Financial Ombudsman Service that exists separately from 
the intended reimbursement rights and that APP scam victims will still be able to bring 
complaints where they believe that the conduct of a firm has caused their loss (in addition to 
any claim under the reimbursement rules). 
 
Should Mr B bear any responsibility for his losses? 
 
I’ve also considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for Mr B to bear some 
responsibility for his own losses here. In considering this point, I’ve taken into account what 
 
 
the law says about contributory negligence as well as what’s fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
 
I’ve considered the evidence carefully and, while I accept Mr B genuinely believed these 
payments were being made in connection with a legitimate employment opportunity, I’m not 
persuaded that belief was a reasonable one.   
 
According to his representative, there was no formalisation of the arrangement between him 
and the employer – for example, there was no written contract and I’ve seen nothing that 
clearly set out of the terms of his employment. In addition to that, the arrangement was very 
different to the normal employer-employee relationship. In most circumstances, people 
expect to be paid by their employer, rather than the other way around. Also, the returns 
promised in exchange for the actual work being completed seems unrealistic and probably 
should have been viewed as being too good to be true. 
 
In the circumstances, I think Mr B should have proceeded only with great caution. If he had 
carried out any further research, for example online searches, I think he’d have quickly 
discovered his circumstances were similar to those commonly associated with many job 
scams. Overall, I think it’s fair and reasonable for Revout to make a 50% deduction from the 
redress payable. 
 
Recovery of funds 
 
I’ve also looked at whether Revolut could or should have done more to try and recover Mr 
B’s losses once it was aware that the payments were the result of fraud. 
 
For the peer-to-peer cryptocurrency purchases, these payments made legitimate purchases 
of cryptocurrency that was transferred to an account under Mr B’s control, albeit briefly. In 
those circumstances, we wouldn’t necessarily expect the business to be able to recover 
funds from a (most likely) genuine seller of cryptocurrency who was not involved in the 
scam. 
 
The other payments went to a legitimate cryptocurrency accounts in Mr B’s own name. From 
there, he purchased cryptocurrency and moved it onto a wallet address of his choosing 
(albeit on the scammers’ instructions). If Revolut tried to recover the funds, it could only have 
tried to do so from Mr B’s own account and it appears all the money had already been 
moved on and, if not, anything that was left would still have been available to him to access.  
 
Finally, I understand there was a delay in reporting the fraud – Revolut says it wasn’t told 
until it received Mr B’s complaint, several weeks after the last payments on 17 March 2023. 
It’s a common feature of this type of scam that the fraudster will move money very quickly to 
other accounts once received to frustrate any attempted recovery and I don’t think anything 
that Revolut could have done differently would likely to have led to those payments being 
recovered successfully after this period of time 
 
In conclusion 
 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t think Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr B and I’m upholding this complaint in part. While I don’t think it acted 
incorrectly in processing payments 1 to 8 in line with Mr B’s instructions, if it had carried out 
an appropriate intervention before payment 9 debited his account, I’m satisfied payments 9 
to 14 would have been prevented. 
 
 
Putting things right 
The principal aim of any award I make must be to return Mr B to the position he’d now be in 
but for the errors or inappropriate actions of Revolut, while allowing for any responsibility he 
should reasonably bear. If Revolut had carried out an appropriate intervention as I’ve 
described, I’m satisfied the scam would have been stopped and Mr B would have retained 
the money that was lost from payment 9 onwards. As outlined above, I’ve applied a 50% 
deduction to the amounts to be refunded in recognition of Mr B’s own contribution towards 
the loss. 
 
To put things right, Revolut should pay Mr B compensation of A + B, where: 
 
• A = a refund of 50% of each of payments 9 to 14 outlined above; and 
 
• B = simple interest on each amount being refunded in A at 8% per year from the date 
of the corresponding payment to the date compensation is paid. 
 
Interest is intended to compensate Mr B for the period he was unable to use this money. HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) requires Revolut to deduct tax from any interest. It must 
provide Mr B with a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one. 
 
I’m satisfied this represents a fair and reasonable settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. Subject to Mr B’s acceptance, Revolut 
Ltd should now put things right as I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2025. 
   
James Biles 
Ombudsman