DRN-5224838 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs B and Mr S complain that Nationwide Building Society won’t refund the money they lost 
when they were the victims of what they feel was a scam. 
 
What happened 
Between 2014 and 2022, Mrs B and Mr S made a number of payments out of their 
Nationwide account to someone who Mr S says told him they were carrying out work on a 
legal case for him. But Mr S says he never received any legal advice or services from the 
person he was paying, and was advised in 2022 to stop paying them. Mrs B and Mr S then 
later reported the payments to Nationwide as a scam and asked it to refund the money they 
had lost. 
 
Nationwide investigated but said it felt this was a civil dispute between Mrs B and Mr S and 
the person they had paid, so it didn’t agree to refund the payments. Mrs B and Mr S weren’t 
satisfied with Nationwide’s response, so referred a complaint to our service. 
 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didn’t think the available evidence 
was enough to say Mrs B and Mr S had been the victims of a scam. So they didn’t think 
Nationwide should have to refund the payments they had made. Mrs B and Mr S disagreed 
with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I don’t think it would be fair to require Nationwide to refund the payments 
Mrs B and Mr S made here. I’ll explain why below. 
 
Before our service considers whether a bank has done enough to protect its customers, we 
must first be satisfied that a customer has been the victim of a scam. But despite requesting 
evidence from them and giving them sufficient opportunity to provide it, I don’t think we have 
enough information or evidence from Mrs B and Mr S here to safely conclude that the 
payments they have complained about were made as a result of a scam. 
 
Mrs B and Mr S have said the payments were made to someone who said they were 
carrying out work on a legal case for Mr S. But they haven’t been able to provide any 
evidence of any communication between Mr S and the person the payments were made to, 
or any evidence of any agreement between them for what the payments were for. They also 
haven’t been able to provide any invoices from the person for the work they were 
supposedly carrying out for Mr S, or any evidence of the legal case Mr S was pursuing. 
 
I appreciate Mrs B and Mr S have said Mr S mainly communicated with the person over the 
phone, so there wasn’t any written communication with them to now provide, and that the 
person didn’t provide Mr S with any invoices or documents relating to the case – despite him 
asking for them. But this means that the only evidence we have about what the payments 

 
 
were for, and that the person didn’t do what it was agreed they would in exchange for this 
money, is what Mrs B and Mr S are now telling us. 
 
And so I don’t think the evidence available here is sufficient to safely conclude that Mrs B 
and Mr S have been the victims of a scam, or to ask Nationwide to refund the payments they 
made from their account. 
 
I recognise Mrs B and Mr S have said another bank Mr S sent payments to the person from 
has refunded him, and that the police are investigating the person Mr S sent the payments 
to. But I can’t comment on why another bank has chosen to refund Mr S here, and I don’t 
think it means Nationwide also has to refund them. And I haven’t seen anything from the 
police specifically relating to the payments Mrs B and Mr S made or which confirms they 
have seen further evidence of them being the victims of a scam than our service has been 
provided with. 
 
So I still don’t think I can safely conclude that the payments Mrs B and Mr S have 
complained were made as a result of a scam. And so I don’t think it would be fair for me to 
require Nationwide to refund any of the payments they made here. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2025. 
   
Alan Millward 
Ombudsman