DRN-5248380 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr S complains that Plata Finance Limited, lent to him irresponsibly and without carrying out 
proper affordability checks. 
What happened 
In June 2024 Plata approved a loan of £7,500 for Mr S, which was scheduled to be 
repaid at just over £225 per month over a term of 60 months. The purpose of the loan 
seems to have been declared by Mr S to be to consolidate some debt. When assessing 
the application, Plata appear to have asked Mr S something about his financial 
circumstances (or perhaps given him the opportunity to correct its statistical 
assessment/assumptions) and carried out a credit check before approving the lending. 
 
It seems that Mr S has maintained the account well so far. 
 
The investigator looked at the evidence and thought Plata shouldn’t have approved the 
lending for Mr S. Plata disagreed and asked an ombudsman to look at the complaint. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, and considered the points made by Plata, I’m upholding it, and I’ll explain 
why. 
Plata is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this 
lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (“CONC”), so I won’t repeat 
them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that Mr S 
would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments, 
 
“…without…incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences” 
 
Essentially, he needed to be able to meet his financial commitments and not have 
to borrow elsewhere to repay Plata for the loan to be considered affordable and 
sustainable. 
 
There are two questions I need to consider when deciding this case, which I will 
deal with separately below. 
 
Did Plata carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan? 
 
The investigator thought that Plata didn’t do enough checks when assessing this application. 
In saying that, she highlighted Mr S’s large amount of unsecured debt, relative to his income.  
Plata doesn’t accept that, saying that, as a result of Mr S’s good credit history and well 

 
 
managed credit accounts, Plata “…did not consider it proportionate to request any further 
information...” from him. I don’t agree that decision was a reasonable and justifiable one. 
What those indicate is that Mr S was adept at managing his debt – what one might describe 
as “creditworthiness”. But the necessary checks are not designed to protect lenders from 
possible bad debt: they must be borrower focused, and assess the potential harm to the 
customer from further borrowing. 
 
Alongside the issue of Mr S’s overall indebtedness, Plata’s credit check highlighted that he 
had withdrawn over £4,000 in cash on his credit cards in the preceding 12 months. And that 
was an established pattern over the preceding three years, during which time he had taken 
over £13,000 in cash advances. This is an extremely expensive way to borrow money and 
not something that is generally an indicator of financial wellbeing. 
 
Plata highlighted that Mr S had the opportunity to amend monthly expenditure figures 
calculated by it during the course of the application, and that he chose to reduce those, 
leading to him potentially showing as having more disposable income. I accept that lenders 
are generally entitled to rely on the information provided to them by potential borrowers. 
And Mr S has explained that he was, frankly, desperate for money, and did not expect to 
be approved for this loan. So, in the round, I accept that Mr S may have attempted to make 
his financial situation look better than it was in order to secure the loan. But, in this case, 
and particularly bearing in mind the substantial sums in cash he had been withdrawing on 
his credit card, I don’t think that in any way enables Plata to say that it had no indication 
that Mr S might have been in a vulnerable situation. Reducing his monthly expenses on the 
application did not erase the clear flags of problems of which Plata was in possession. 
 
Overall concerns about indebtedness and financial management ought to have raised a 
definite flag around his ability to take on further borrowing which was compliant with the 
relevant rules in place at the time. Coupled with the term and size of the loan in question, 
there is no doubt in my mind that Plata ought to have carried out further checks, and asked 
more questions of Mr S before approving this loan. 
 
What would further checks have shown? 
 
When considering this second question, our service has had the benefit of several of Mr 
S’s bank statements from 2024 to review, alongside a full credit file. I accept that there was 
and is no requirement on a lender to obtain any particular type of information: they are 
permitted to source and rely on a range of evidence when assessing affordability, and so 
Plata could have opted to gather more information about Mr S’s financial position in a 
range of ways. However, it didn’t, and, in the absence of anything else provided, I’m happy 
to rely on the bank statements and credit file to demonstrate what Plata would most likely 
have discovered if it had completed proportionate checks. 
 
The investigator highlighted that the bank statements showed that Mr S was spending 
more than his monthly income on gambling, and that therefore Plata ought not to have 
approved the lending. Plata’s response did not deal with this in any way, and simply 
reiterated that its checks were proportionate. 
 
However, I have thought in considerable detail about what Plata would have concluded 
from further evidence, such as the bank statements. And indeed we have asked Mr S for 
additional information. That is because, at first glance, the current account statements 
show a large income and rarely a balance anywhere near £0. 
 
But a slightly more detailed review of the transactions quickly reveals concerns and a little 
probing identifies the extreme precariousness of Mr S’s finances. In one month, Mr S spent 
over £8,000 on gambling, which is more than twice his income. He won around £10,000, 
 
 
but it goes without saying that this cannot be considered as income. 
 
I think it is immediately obvious from the current account statements that Mr S had a 
problem with gambling. He himself has been brave enough to describe it as a “severe 
addiction”, which would appear to be borne out by the transactions. 
 
What was also interesting to me was that in the latter two current account statements, 
there appear to be no gambling transactions at all. Could that have potentially been a 
source of reassurance to Plata that this borrowing was sustainable and affordable for him? 
We asked Mr S about what had been going on, and he talked about having applied 
blockers on his current account to stop him gambling that way. But that he had then simply 
turned to betting shops and using cash. 
 
The large cash withdrawals are clear, and are not accompanied by a decline in debit card 
transactions, such as for coffees, eating out, or shopping. So it’s not plausible that Mr S 
was simply choosing to do his spending in cash all of a sudden. It’s reasonable to conclude 
that the cash withdrawals are for a particular purpose, and I am persuaded here that 
purpose was gambling. 
 
I also noticed a large number of transfers backwards and forwards between Mr S’s current 
account and another account, or accounts, of his. This is not uncommon where people are 
having financial difficulties, and I asked for further information. Mr S sent in a statement 
covering several relevant months of his savings account, which provide a fuller picture. 
What appears to have been happening in the Spring of 2024 is that Mr S would deposit 
any cash gambling winnings into his savings account, which was what was funding 
transfers into his current account at times. 
 
So although the transactions on the current account initially suggest he had stopped 
gambling, and indeed may have had a rich seam of savings to draw on, I’m satisfied that is 
not true. And it would not have required any extensive detective work to identify that. In 
fairness to Plata, I have also thought carefully about what Mr S is most likely to have told it, 
had it taken the not unreasonable course of asking him verbally for more information. For 
example, it may well have asked which debts he was planning to consolidate with this loan. 
Or it may have asked him whether he had simply stopped gambling when those transactions 
disappeared from his current account statement in March 2024. And in considering that, I am 
alive to the possibility that he may not have been entirely truthful with Plata in his responses. 
 
Had Mr S identified £7,500 worth of credit card debt to be consolidated, and answered “yes” 
if Plata had asked him whether he had stopped gambling, I don’t think those inaccurate 
(hypothetical) answers could possibly have been considered plausible. From Plata’s credit 
check, it was clear that cashflow was a significant problem, which was leading to both recent 
and long-term cash advances on credit cards. Any reassurances Mr S might have offered 
could not have been robust enough to also undermine the transactions and transfers that 
were evident on the current account statements. In short, I cannot see that there would have 
been anything Mr S could have said that would reasonably have convinced Plata that he did 
not have what he characterises as a severe gambling addiction, and that this borrowing was 
affordable and sustainable for him. 
 
On the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that proportionate checks would have led Plata 
to conclude that this borrowing was not affordable and sustainable for Mr S. It therefore 
follows that I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right 
This loan is ongoing. On that basis, I direct Plata to do the following: 
 
 
 
A) Plata must restructure the account to remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the outstanding loan. 
 
B) If this results in Mr S having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
 
C) Plata should agree an affordable and sustainable repayment plan with Mr S. 
 
D) Whilst I’m not aware that there is any so far, it must remove any adverse information 
recorded on Mr S’s credit file in relation to this loan, once it is repaid in full. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Plata to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr S 
a certificate showing how much tax it’s deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Plata Finance Limited to 
put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2025. 
   
Siobhan McBride 
Ombudsman