DRN-4664055
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Family Assurance Friendly Society Limited trading as OneFamily. 
OneFamily has withdrawn a product that she invested in. Mrs R says this has impacted her 
negatively. She says that she has had to employ a financial adviser and the investments are 
subject to a capital gains tax liability because of this. It has been a stressful and worrying 
time for her. She would like OneFamily to put this right. 
What happened
In 2014 Mrs R invested in some OneFamily unit trusts for some of her family members. 
Mrs R says these investments were placed in trust for them and it was intended they would 
become theirs at a fixed time in the future. That is each family member’s 18th birthday.   
In March 2023 OneFamily informed Mrs R that it would no longer offer, or administer, the 
unit trusts that she had invested in. The letter she received informed her that she would need 
to sell the investments, and there may be a capital gains tax liability when she did this. She 
could not transfer the investments to another provider. 
Mrs R has complained about this on the basis the change has caused her considerable 
expense and OneFamily has provided no assistance with this. She says it has also been 
poor at providing the information she needed. She thinks that OneFamily should contribute 
to the costs she has borne and/or not cease to provide the unit trusts. She feels badly let 
down by OneFamily and invested on the basis that the investments would stay in place for 
the foreseeable future. 
OneFamily has responded to Mrs R’s complaint and has not upheld it. It said that it has 
made a corporate decision not to provide unit trust investments going forward and it wasn’t 
wrong to do this. And it would close Mrs R’s investments in due course. 
Mrs R has brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. OneFamily, on being 
notified of this, reiterated that it had made a business decision to close these investments. 
But it thought that it had given investors such as Mrs R a reasonable amount of time to look 
at other options. 
One of our Investigators considered Mrs R’s complaint but didn’t uphold it. Our Investigator 
said that OneFamily was entitled to withdraw this product and it hadn’t breached any 
regulatory obligations when it did this. He thought it acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs R didn’t agree and said that our Investigator hadn’t properly considered that 
OneFamily’s decision had led to her incurring a significant tax liability that she wouldn’t have 
ordinarily incurred. And she had incurred expenses in moving the investments. It has offered 
no help in ameliorating the consequences of its decision to close the unit trusts. She said a 
contract had been established that OneFamily had reneged on, which wasn’t reasonable. 
Our Investigator didn’t change their view of the complaint. As no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision. 

What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator outlined, our role here is to consider individual disputes about financial 
products and services. But we don’t otherwise regulate businesses or become involved in 
how firms manage themselves. This is the role of the industry regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (‘FCA’). 
OneFamily has decided to no longer offer an investment that Mrs R had invested in on 
behalf of her family members. As a starting point it isn’t unreasonable that it can do this. 
Firms can, and should, have discretion over what products and services they provide.  
I can’t issue a decision that essentially says that OneFamily couldn’t withdraw a product. If 
I did this it would mean that I wouldn’t be just considering Mrs R’s complaint I would be 
directing a business in how it should run itself, without any knowledge of the consequences 
of this, including how it may affect other policyholders. It wouldn’t be right for me to do this.
So, I don’t think that, as far as I can consider the issues that Mrs R has raised, that 
OneFamily has acted incorrectly when it made plans to withdraw the unit trusts. 
As Mrs R has said, her complaint doesn’t just concern this. It concerns the costs, both 
financially and in terms of the time and frustration that this issue had caused her.  
But I can’t make an award where I don’t uphold a complaint. And I’m not upholding this 
complaint as I am not persuaded that OneFamily has done anything wrong here when it 
withdrew the unit trust.
Mrs R has principally pointed to the capital gains tax that she may have to pay when the 
investments are surrendered. But capital gains tax is paid due to HMRC rules where an 
investment makes a profit (above certain limits). And if Mrs R is saying it will have to paid 
now, then it’s a reasonable assumption that the trust the investments are held in would have 
had to pay this in the future. I don’t think there is any certainty that a loss has been suffered 
here. 
And whilst the terms and conditions do show that OneFamily has obligations in respect of 
the funds that were invested in it, I don’t think these obligations (contractual or otherwise) 
make it reasonable for there to be no circumstance where it can close an investment. And 
it’s worth noting that Mrs R or the trustees of the trusts could also withdraw from the 
arrangement. 
Overall, I’m not upholding Mrs R’s complaint. I appreciate Mrs R will feel very strongly that 
this outcome is incorrect, but I don’t think it would be right to make any award here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don’t uphold Mrs R’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2024.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman