DRN-4853446
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (“Lloyds”) won’t reimburse her in full for money she 
lost as part of a third-party scam.
Mr G has been acting on Mrs G behalf but for simplicity, and as this is Mrs G’s bank account, 
I have referred to Mrs G throughout this decision.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat 
them in detail here. But briefly Mrs G fell victim to a job scam. As part of the scam Mrs G 
bought genuine cryptocurrency which she then sent on to the scammer. The last payment 
went directly to the scammer’s account.
Mrs G carried out a combination of debit card payments totalling around £3,637 and one 
faster payment totalling £4,500. As part of the scam Mrs G also received three credits into 
her account totalling £457.19. 
Lloyds reviewed Mrs G’s complaint and said the debit card payments were completed by 
Mrs G so can’t be considered as fraud. However, it accepted partial liability for the faster 
payment and refunded 50% of it - so £2,250.
Date Beneficiary Debit Credit Transaction Type
11/1/23 Cryptocurrency B £37 Debit card
12/1/23 Cryptocurrency B £87 Debit card
12/1/23 Cryptocurrency B £128 Debit card
12/1/23 Cryptocurrency B £102.00 credit
12/1/23 Cryptocurrency B £123.44 credit
13/1/23 Cryptocurrency B £86 Debit card
13/1/23 Cryptocurrency B £68 Debit card
15/1/23 Cryptocurrency B £101 Debit card
16/1/23 Cryptocurrency B £30 Debit card
16/1/23 X 5 declined trans Merchant blocked
16/1/23 Cryptocurrency B £220 Debit card
16/1/23 Cryptocurrency B £840 Debit card
16/1/23 Cryptocurrency B £2,040 Debit card
16/1/23 Cryptocurrency B £231.75 credit
16/1/23 X 8 declined trans Lloyds blocked
16/1/23 Payee A £4,500 Faster payment
Our investigator considered Mrs G’s complaint. However, she didn’t uphold the complaint as 
she didn’t think the card payments were unusual enough to have triggered any intervention 
from Lloyds. She also considered it was fair for Lloyds to reduce a refund on the last 
transaction by 50% on the basis that Mrs G didn’t have a reasonable basis for believing this 
was a genuine job opportunity.

Lloyds didn’t provide any further submissions. Mrs G provided further points for me to 
consider. 
She explained her judgement was impaired at the time and she was under significant 
mental distress. The medications she was on impaired her ability to discern the 
legitimacy of the job offer.
She felt Lloyds should have intervened and the fact that it didn’t constitutes a failure 
in its duty of care.
She received credits back which became a strong basis for belief that the person was 
legitimate.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mrs G’s response to my provisional decision.
I don’t require medical evidence of Mrs G’s condition. This is not something I have 
questioned. And I have taken into account the reported effects of her mental health struggles 
and how she says the medication she was taking impacted her, when reaching my decision. 
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision it is only the last transaction here that is 
covered by the Lending Standards Board’s Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. 
So, when considering vulnerability (something Mrs G only told Lloyds about when she 
reported the scam) under the Code – I am only considering it in relation to the final 
transaction. This is also the case for Mrs G’s reasonable basis for belief – this only applies to 
the final transaction. 
Lloyds has already accepted it didn’t do enough for the last transaction and refunded 50% of 
the sum involved. But by the time this transaction took place there is evidence that Mrs G 
was capable of doing more to protect herself. She did do some research on the company - 
so was capable of doing more. And there are signs within the messages she had doubts. I 
think there was more she might reasonably have done that would have led to the scam 
being uncovered. I have thought very carefully about everything Mrs G has told us – but 
overall, I’m not persuaded Mrs G was unable to protect herself against the particular scam 
she fell victim to.
I appreciate that Mrs G received some small credits back which reassured her this was a 
legitimate opportunity. But by the time of the transaction in question, these small credits had 
been disproportionate in relation to the large sums she was sending. By the time of the last 
transaction, I think there were signs this wasn’t a legitimate opportunity and the deal 
warranted further scrutiny. Paying disproportionate sums of money to an opportunity that 
was supposed to be a job, in which Mrs G was paid very small credits, is something I think 
she should have questioned. Indeed, she did question this with the scammer – as I outlined 
in my provisional decision, before she made this last transaction.
So I am not asking Lloyds to refund the other 50% of this transaction.
In my provisional decision, I explained in detail – why I didn’t think the earlier transactions 
(not covered by the CRM Code) were unusually high enough nor do I feel they showed a 
pattern that suggested a heightened risk of financial harm from fraud. Banks can’t intervene 
on every transaction. There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that 
could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. And, it’s not 
unusual for consumers to make higher payments from time to time. Purchasing 
cryptocurrency in itself is not a scam but rather these are genuine transactions for the 
genuine purchase of cryptocurrency. 
I did say in my provisional decision that I thought the last card payment was one that Lloyds 
could have done more and warn of cryptocurrency investment scams, but this wasn’t the 
scam Mrs G fell victim to – so I don’t think providing such a warning would have made a 
difference in Mrs G proceeding with this payment.
Overall, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. 
For completeness, I have set this out below:
I’m sorry to hear Mrs G was the victim of this cruel scam and I can understand why she 
wants to do all she can to recover the money she has lost. She’s lost a lot of money. But that 
alone doesn’t mean that Lloyds must reimburse her. It’s important to emphasise that I’m only 
considering whether Lloyds, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held 
responsible for what happened.
In deciding what’s fair and reasonable, I’m required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities – in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Lloyds is a signatory to the Lending Standards Board’s Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code. But it only applies to the last transaction in this case. This is because the CRM 
Code only applies to authorised push payments (APP) and a transfer of funds executed 
across faster payments between GBP (British pound sterling) accounts in certain 
circumstances. Card payments (which are pull payments) and payments to cryptocurrency 
are therefore not covered by the CRM Code. Even though the payments aren’t covered by 
the CRM Code, Lloyds has wider obligations outside of that.
Transactions 1-9 by debit card
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Lloyds is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customer’s account. It’s not disputed that Mrs G made and authorised 
these payments, although I accept that when she did so, she didn’t think her funds were at 
risk. 
As I’ve said above, even though the payments aren’t covered by the CRM Code, there are 
circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where it might be appropriate for 
Lloyds to have taken additional steps, or made additional checks, or provided additional 
warnings, before processing a payment to help protect its customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
So in this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mrs G when she authorised the payments from her account or whether it could and 
should have done more before processing them. 
These transactions (purchasing cryptocurrency) of themselves are not a scam but rather 
genuine transactions for the genuine purchase of cryptocurrency. The scam happened after 
that via a cryptocurrency wallet in Mrs G’s own name she set up as part of the scam. 
Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and the payments were made to a genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange. The payments were also to an account in Mrs G’s own name. I 
appreciate the loss happened from Mrs G’s cryptocurrency account, but Lloyds ought to 
fairly and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider 
scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have done more when Mrs G tried to make 
the payments. 
I am aware that scams involving cryptocurrency had become increasingly prevalent and well 
known to banks. But I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to take into account a range of 
factors when deciding whether to intervene. I am mindful that banks can’t reasonably be 
involved in every transaction. There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments 
that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. It’s not 
unusual for consumers to make higher payments from time to time.
The transactions were spread out over a few days and - whilst not insignificant to Mrs G - 
were still relatively low in value. I appreciate they were going to a cryptocurrency provider, 
but I don’t think the pattern of payments and the values were consistent with a heightened 
risk of financial harm. So, in the overall circumstances, I don’t think Lloyds needed to do 
anymore before it processed these payments.
Transaction 10 – debit card
That said the final debit card payment for £2,040 on 16 January 2023 was more than Mrs G 
usually spent and was preceded by quite a lot of activity all very close together on the same 
day. 
However, even if I found at the point Mrs G made this last card payment, that Lloyds ought 
to have recognised an elevated risk of the likelihood of a cryptocurrency transaction being 
related to a fraud or scam - I’d only expect it to provide a tailored warning during the in-app 
verification process that related to cryptocurrency investment scams. 
But Mrs G wasn’t falling victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam – she was the victim of 
a tasked based job scam – so I don’t think providing such a warning would have resonated 
with the situation Mrs G found herself in. So even if Lloyds had provided such a warning, I 
don’t think it would have made a difference with Mrs G proceeding with the payment. So I’m 
not upholding this transaction either.
 
Transaction 11
Contrary to the investigator’s view, this transaction is covered by the CRM Code which 
Lloyds has signed up to. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of APP scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
A bank might decline a refund if it can be demonstrated that the customer made the payment 
without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
 the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
The CRM Code also outlines the standards a firm is expected to meet.
Did Lloyds meet its obligations under the CRM Code?
Lloyds has already accepted it didn’t do enough for the last transaction - so I don’t need to 
consider this point further. But that doesn’t necessarily mean Mrs G is entitled to a full refund 
- as Lloyds has relied on one of the exceptions to reimbursement.
Did Mrs G have a reasonable basis for belief?
I need to consider not just whether Mrs G believed she was sending money for a task-based 
job, but whether it was reasonable for her to do so.
Mrs G initially told Lloyds she’d researched the company for whom she was working. But this 
final transaction was different than the previous payments. She was no longer being asked 
to make payments via the genuine cryptocurrency wallet and Mrs G said she was given an 
explanation of why this was the case. Initially Mrs G was asked to make this final payment to 
a business name – I will refer to as F. Mrs G told Lloyds she researched F but nothing came 
up for them on the internet. The payment to F failed and she was then given an individual’s 
personal bank account details to send the payment to. I think Mrs G reasonably ought to 
have questioned all of this. And I think by the time Mrs G made this payment there were 
signs that Mrs G had doubts herself about the legitimacy of the opportunity. Looking through 
the chat messages in the run up to this payment Mrs G queries with the scammer:
 
I don’t understand y I need to put more money
Omg that’s a big amount….U have not credited my salary and asking for such a 
amount
If it is credit then y do I need to put money
What’s happening…I can’t complete task 2.. Again again my account goes in 
negative balance
I think there were signs this wasn’t a legitimate opportunity and, certainly by the time of the 
last transaction, the deal warranted further scrutiny. Paying money to an opportunity that 
was supposed to be a job in which Mrs G would be paid is something I think she should 
have questioned. And I think checking things further would likely have revealed this was a 
scam. So I think Lloyds can fairly rely on this exception to reimbursement.
My intention is not to further Mrs G’s distress where she’s already been the victim of a cruel 
fraud. But merely to highlight that I do find Lloyds has been able to demonstrate it can 
reasonably rely on an exception to reimbursement. 
Vulnerability under the Code
There are provisions under the code which might lead to a refund, even when a customer 
doesn’t have a reasonable basis for belief. The relevant part of the Code, says: 
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. This should be 
assessed on a case-by-case basis.
From the information Mrs G has provided to both us and the bank, it’s clear that she was 
experiencing a particularly difficult time in her personal life when she fell victim to the scam. 
She’d had serious health struggles for a number of years. She says her condition affected 
her decision making and the medication she was on made her sleepy.
I’m sorry to hear of all Mrs G has been through. Not just in terms of this scam, but also 
what’s happened to her at other times in her life. I’ve no doubt that Mrs G has been through 
a lot and I don’t doubt that her mental health has suffered as a result. And the scam has 
clearly impacted her further. I don’t question her mental health struggles and the impact it 
has had. But I must consider whether there are vulnerabilities present to such an extent that 
Mrs G was unable to take steps to identify the scam she fell victim to or to recognise steps 
she might take to test the legitimacy of what she was being told by the fraudsters. To do so I 
must consider the details of the scam, Mrs G’s actions throughout, and the wider 
circumstances of what was happening in Mrs G’s life at the time. 
I empathise with Mrs G and all she’s been through, but I don’t find it is unreasonable to 
expect that she could have protected herself from the scam. There is evidence within the 
circumstances and from what Mrs G has told us that suggest she was capable of taking 
steps to protect herself from fraud and financial harm. She did do some research so was 
capable of doing more. And there are signs within the messages she had doubts. I think 
there was more she might reasonably have done that would have led to the scam being 
uncovered and having thought very carefully about everything Mrs G has told us I’m not 
persuaded that it would not be reasonable to expect Mrs G to have protected herself against 
the particular scam she fell victim to. 
Did Lloyds do enough to recover Mrs G’s funds?
I’ve thought about whether Lloyds took reasonable steps to recover Mrs G’s funds once it 
was made aware she was the victim of a scam. As the investigator explained all but the last 
payment was transferred into an account in Mrs G’s name and to buy genuine 
cryptocurrency - rather than directly to the scammer. So I am only considering whether it 
could have reasonably recovered the funds Mrs G sent on the final payment.
The payment was made at 17:09 on 16 January 2023. Mr G, on Mrs G’s behalf, reported the 
scam to Lloyds at 18:41 on 16 January 2023. Lloyds reached out to the beneficiary bank at 
20:55 - an hour after the APP reporting call ended but were told that no funds remain. This is 
not unusual as scammers usually remove funds immediately. So, I don’t think Lloyds could 
have done anymore to recover Mrs G’s funds.
Given that Lloyds could have prevented the loss on the final transaction (but Mrs G should
share in the responsibility for her loss) the refund (that Lloyds has already made) of 50% on
the final transaction is fair and reasonable in this case and in line with what I would award in
this case. So, I don’t find it needs to do anything further.
I realise my decision will be a significant disappointment to Mrs G. I sympathise with her 
circumstances, and I am sorry she has fallen victim to a scam and lost so much money. But I 
think this is the fair and reasonable outcome taking everything into account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2024.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman