DRN-4861106
The complaint
Miss R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
On 26 April 2022, Miss R applied for a personal loan of £38,900 from Barclays. It was for 
home furnishings for her new property. The loan was agreed, with a payment period of five 
years and an interest rate of 15.9% APR. Repayments were £918.42. The loan was drawn 
on 26 April 2022.
On the same day, Miss R called Barclays to cancel the loan and was told she needed to call 
back the following day to do that or go online/on her mobile app to do that the following day.
On 27 April 2022, Miss R sent the loan money (£38,900) to a crypto investment – she was 
the victim of an investment scam. She had already sent two other previous payments of 
£1,900 and £4,280 as part of the scam. So she lost £45,080 in total in the scam.
Miss R complained to Barclays about the scam and then to this service. As a result, Barclays 
refunded 50% of the payments, plus 50% of the interest paid on the loan. The balance of the 
loan after the refund was £22,064 (April 2023).
Separately, Miss R made a complaint to Barclays to say the loan was lent irresponsibly – 
which is the subject of this complaint. She said:
- The loan was agreed the same day she applied and so Barclays couldn’t have done 
the necessary checks.
- She was buying a new property and her outgoings were increasing, and so Barclays 
couldn’t have taken account of that.
- As a result, she couldn’t have afforded the loan.
- She called Barclays on the day the loan was agreed to cancel it but was told she 
needed to call back the following day. So, because of that, the loan was void.
- She didn’t sign a loan agreement.
- She had used the loan to buy crypto currency – which was not the purpose of a loan. 
Barclays stated this on their website. She told Barclays she was using the loan for 
crypto and so Barclays shouldn’t have allowed the loan to be drawn.
Barclays said they’d checked Miss R’s income and expenditure and this showed she could 
afford the repayments. They said she had a monthly disposable income (MDI) of £1,802. In 
a further final response, after allowing for living expenses, Barclays said her MDI was £930.  
Barclays offered compensation of £300 for the time it had taken to resolve Miss R’s 
complaint. 
Miss R didn’t accept this and brought her complaint to us. Barclays didn’t initially provide any 

information and so our investigator issued a view which upheld Miss R’s complaint. He 
worked out Miss R’s monthly expenditure was £1,225 and her income was £1,937 – so the 
repayments of £918 weren’t affordable. He said Barclays should refund the interest paid on 
the loan and agree a payment programme for the remaining amount. Any adverse entries on 
Miss R’s credit file should also be removed.
Miss R didn’t agree and said Barclays should do more. She asked that an ombudsman look 
at her complaint, and so it has come to me to do that.
I issued a first provisional decision which upheld Miss R’s complaint:
In looking at Miss R’s complaint about irresponsible lending, it’s important to note that in the 
separate complaint about the scam investments, an ombudsman issued a final decision 
which said:
- Barclays should refund 50% of the loan (£19,450); and 50% of the other amounts 
paid (£6,180).
- Barclays should refund 50% of the interest on the loan.
- These refunds and adjustments have been made.
Therefore, this decision looks at the complaint about irresponsible lending, and not the 
payments made to the scam investment.
Turning to the purpose of the loan – we can only expect Barclays to agree a loan for the 
stated purpose of it in the application made by Miss R – i.e. in this case, for home 
furnishings. I don’t think it is reasonable for Miss R to argue that as she subsequently used 
the loan for a (scam) investment, that that means it is void. I say that as the crypto payments 
were made after the event of Barclays agreeing to the loan. So - I set aside Miss R’s claims 
here.
Miss R also argues that she called Barclays to cancel the loan on the day she applied for it 
and when it was drawdown – 26 April 2022. I agree this would’ve been possible as it was 
within the 14-day cooling off period – that was quoted in the loan agreement.  
Barclays provided a transcript of the call she made on 26 April 2022. Miss R did call to say 
she’d changed her mind and wanted to cancel the loan. Barclays’ call handler said the loan 
could be cancelled, but it couldn’t be done that day (because the loan wasn’t showing in the 
bank’s books that day) – and Miss R was advised to ether call the next day (27 April 2022) to 
cancel it or cancel it herself in the app or online.
But I can see that what then happened – was that in the following morning of 27 April 2022, 
Miss R made the payments to the crypto currency payment platform. So – it looks like she 
decided not to cancel the loan, but instead use it to buy crypto currency. So, she decided to 
go ahead with the loan, rather than cancel it. So – I set that claim aside also.
Miss R says she didn’t sign a loan agreement. But Barclays have provided a copy of the loan 
agreement  - which was signed online electronically by Miss R. So – I also set that point 
aside.
That now brings me to the crux of Miss R’s complaint – that Barclays didn’t carry out 
sufficient checks when agreeing to the loan.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We have to check whether 
Barclays acted in line within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the 
customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to 
make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender knew 
about the borrower’s circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customer’s income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
It’s important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent – so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made. I think it’s reasonable for me to say that this was a loan for a large 
amount, and over a fairly long period (five years) – and so Barclays had an obligation to 
carry out detailed and proportionate checks before agreeing to the loan.
We asked Barclays for their files and up to the point of our investigator’s view, hadn’t 
provided anything. After that time Barclays send us some information, including their final 
responses and an income and expenditure assessment. This showed the figures as I quoted 
above – that Miss R had sufficient monthly disposable income to meet the payments. 
But it’s important to note that this assessment appears to have been carried out by Barclays 
after the event of agreeing to the loan – when they were dealing with Miss R’s complaint. 
Barclays haven’t provided anything to show the assessment they carried out at the point of 
approval of the loan – so we have no contemporaneous information to see if they carried out 
the necessary checks in April 2022.
The post event figures worked out by Barclays show an average MDI (over four months) of 
£930 per month – so the payments of £918 were going to be tight based on that. And in the 
month of March 2022 (after Miss R had bought her new property and taken on a new 
mortgage), the MDI was £914 (after deducting food etc from the MDI calculation). So, the 
payments of £918 were again shown to be tight. And therefore – it’s reasonable to have 
expected Barclays to have asked more questions of Miss R, but (based on the evidence 
provided) they didn’t.
So, based on this – I think it’s reasonable for me to say that Barclays didn’t carry out 
sufficient and proportionate affordability checks. Miss R has had the use of the money (even 
though this was unfortunately lost in the investment scam) and so it’s not reasonable for me 
to ask Barclays to write off the capital amount. But Barclays must refund the interest debited 
to the loan to date, and not charge any further interest. And agree with Miss R a mutually 
satisfactory payment programme for the residual amount owed, and on an interest free 
basis. And - remove any adverse information reported to credit reference agencies.
It's not clear if Barclays have paid the agreed compensation of £300 to Miss R – the bank 
should confirm this when responding to this provisional decision.
I invite either Barclays or Miss R to respond to this provisional decision with any new 
information – for example, if Barclays provide evidence of the checks they carried out at the 
time of the loan, then I will review this.
Responses to the first provisional decision:
Miss R said she called Barclays to check if the loan money could be used for investments. 
She said Barclays told her she could and so she decided not to cancel the loan and invest it 
– which led to the scam. So, she argues that she didn’t cancel the loan because of that.
Barclays provided more information:
- the bank showed us the actual affordability calculations they carried out when Miss R 
applied for the loan. The provisional decision had noted that Barclays had done some 
post-event calculations – I wanted to see what actually happened when the loan was 
applied for.
- Barclays showed us they worked out (from what Miss R told the bank and Barclays’ 
own research):
oMiss R’s income was £1,937 per month.
oHer monthly disposable income (MDI) was £1,041 (and the new loan 
payments were £918).
oThis included ‘housing costs’ (i.e. rent) of £163.
- So the crux of this decision comes down to whether Barclays could reasonably have 
known that Miss R had just taken out a mortgage with a monthly cost on £547. This 
wasn’t shown in the bank’s affordability calculations. 
- If Barclays had known this, or had been told about it, then I would’ve expected this to 
be shown in the affordability work. If Barclays were aware of it, then including it would 
have shown the new loan to be unaffordable.
- Barclays showed us the credit search they did at the time – and it didn’t show the 
new mortgage – which started 11 February 2022. I’m not surprised by this – as it can 
take at least two months for a credit file to be updated, i.e. in this case, at the end of 
April 2022. So – it’s clear that Barclays wouldn’t have been aware of it, or be 
expected to be aware of it.
- Barclays told us that as part of the application process, Miss R was asked if there 
were any recent changes to her expenditure. Miss R didn’t declare anything.
- So, Barclays argued that the income and expenditure analysis they did was 
proportionate and met the checks they needed to complete.
I considered what points Miss R and Barclays made. And then issued a second 
provisional decision which did not uphold Miss R’s complaint:
I consider that Miss R’s point about asking Barclays about whether she could invest the 
money as being relevant only to her complaint about the scam – which has been closed. So, 
I set that aside.
I’m persuaded by Barclays’ further points and evidence - that the bank did complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks when agreeing the loan. The MDI showed Miss R 
could afford the repayments, and Barclays had checked her credit file and this showed there 
wasn’t (as at that date) anything showing as a mortgage payment. So they couldn’t have 
been expected to include it.
Because of this, my view has changed and I don’t intend to uphold this complaint. But 
Barclays haven’t advised if the offered compensation of £300 has been paid or not. If it 
hasn’t, then Miss R is welcome to ask for it to be paid. 
Responses to the second provisional decision:
Miss R asked to see the documents provided by Barclays and made the following points (in 
summary):
- She didn’t sign the loan agreement, either in paper form or electronically. So, the 
loan should be written off.
- The documents provided by Barclays (e.g. the credit search and affordability 
calculations) could’ve been forged. There was no evidence that they were the original 
source documents.
- Barclays couldn’t have done a credit search – as her credit file (as at May 2024) 
showed the earliest search by the bank was in March 2023 (and the loan application 
was in April 2022).
I now need to consider the points made by Miss R and make a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the work and arguments made by Miss R. I’ve gone though her complaint and 
all the evidence again and I am satisfied that the second provisional decision is a fair and 
reasonable one.
Loan agreement: Barclays showed us a copy of the agreement dated 26 April 2022. It was 
signed electronically by Miss R. The application was made online. The electronic signing of 
loan agreements are common in banking today, and I’m satisfied Miss R did so. It’s also 
relevant to say that the loan was drawn down and the proceeds spent by Miss R (albeit she 
then lost the money in a scam). The calls with Barclays also show that she wanted to borrow 
the money – as she questioned if she could then use the loan for investment; and at one 
point, she said she may cancel it.
So, I am satisfied this was a valid loan agreement.
Validity of documents provided by Barclays: we are an informal dispute resolution service 
which seeks to come to fair decisions where there is a complaint from a consumer about a 
financial business. In this connection, there is no reason to believe the documents are not 
genuine. Firms have a duty to provide our service with relevant and genuine information. I’m 
satisfied there had been no forging of documents as Miss R alleges.
Credit search: Barclays showed us a screenshot of the actual credit search they carried out 
at the time. This showed ‘secured balance : nil’. In other words, there wasn’t a mortgage (a 
secured loan) showing in the search. I’m satisfied that the credit search Barclays did was 
genuine and showed that Miss R didn’t have a mortgage recorded on her credit file.
Miss R argues that Barclays couldn’t have done a search – in May 2024 she showed us her 
credit file extract, and this didn’t show a search by Barclays in April 2022. But looking at Miss 
R’s credit file (provided by her in November 2023) – this says that searches are only shown 
for the last 12 months. So – any search made by Barclays in April 2022 won’t show up after 
April 2023. So, I don’t agree with this point.
Therefore, while I know Miss R will be disappointed, I am not upholding her complaint. The 
decision formalises Barclays original offer of compensation of £300 – if this hasn’t already 
been paid.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £300 – if the bank hasn’t already 
paid this to Miss R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2024.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman