DRN-4736439
The complaint
Mr A complains that Revolut Ltd (“Revolut”) won’t refund over £13,000 he lost to an 
employment scam in May 2023.
What happened
Mr A and his wife fell victim to an employment scam after they were contacted by a sham 
recruiter offering a remote working opportunity that involved reviewing products online. As 
the complaint has only been brought by Mr A, I will only refer to him throughout the rest of 
this decision. 
Throughout the scam, Mr A made 20 payments from his Revolut account between 2-3 May 
2023 to various different payees to purchase cryptocurrency through the Peer-to-Peer (P2P) 
market, which he thought he was doing in order to top up his crypto-trading account that was 
required to complete his tasks. However, he realised he’d been scammed when he was 
being asked to make increasingly larger payments to withdraw the money he’d earned.
Mr A reported the fraud to Revolut, but it refused to refund any of the payments as Mr A had 
authorised them. Unhappy with this, he referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator didn’t uphold Mr A’s complaint. She thought that Revolut ought to have 
intervened and spoken to Mr A in light of the unusual payment activity on his account, but 
she didn’t think this would have ultimately prevented the scam as it was clear Mr A had been 
told to lie about the purpose of the payment. Mr A disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isn’t in dispute that Mr A authorised the disputed payments he made from his Revolut 
account. The transfers were requested using his legitimate security credentials provided 
by Revolut, and the starting position is that firms ought to follow the instructions given by 
their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, I’ve considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Mr A from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For 
example, if it was particularly suspicious or out of character.
It’s accepted that some of the payment activity was considered unusual given that it did 
trigger Revolut’s fraud prevention systems and led to it making further enquiries – such 
as the second payment Mr A made on 2 May 2023. Before allowing this payment to be 

made, Revolut asked Mr A to confirm the reason why he was making it, to which he 
selected “Safe Account”. 
Revolut said it provided a warning about safe account scams in light of this reason being 
chosen, but that Mr A proceeded to make the payment. However, Revolut ought 
reasonably to have known that someone sending money to a ‘safe account’ would most 
likely be doing so as part of a scam, so I don’t think a written warning was sufficient in 
these circumstances, and it shouldn’t have allowed the payment to go through at all until 
it had spoken to Mr A to seek further information regarding whether it was linked to a 
safe account scam or not. However, even if it Revolut had questioned Mr A further, I’m 
not persuaded this would have likely prevented his loss in any event. I’ll explain why,
Our service has seen a transcript of the messages sent between Mr A and the scammer, 
whom he was in contact with on 2 May 2023 when he was initially attempting to make 
the payments from another bank. Mr A explained to the scammer that the bank had 
blocked the payments and warned him about potential fraud. He asked the scammer if 
they had any suggestions, where they said he should tell the bank he was sending 
money to his friend or family. Mr A said that his bank told him it seems like the trader is a 
scam, at which point the scammer suggested buying cryptocurrency directly with his 
debit card. Mr A then said it wouldn’t be a problem as he had another account with 
Revolut, where he then proceeded to make the disputed payments. 
Based on this evidence, it’s clear that Mr A was being coached by the scammer on what 
to tell his bank if any of the payments were stopped. So, even if Revolut had questioned 
Mr A further about the reason why he selected “Safe Account” as his payment reason, 
I’m not persuaded he would have given upfront and honest answers. He seemingly 
hadn’t told his other bank that he was making these payments as part of his 
employment, and was told to say he was sending money to family and friends. I note that 
Mr A was also told by his other bank that it sounded like he was being scammed, yet he 
still continued to make the payments through his account with Revolut. 
As a result, I’m not persuaded any further questioning, or scam warnings Revolut 
could’ve provided would have likely revealed the scam in these circumstances. So, I 
don’t consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Revolut liable for failing to prevent 
Mr A’s loss. 
I also don’t think there was anything more Revolut could’ve done to recover the money 
Mr A lost either. It seems that the payees he sent money to were part of the P2P crypto 
market, where he would’ve received cryptocurrency in return for the money he paid. So, 
there would’ve been no basis for Revolut to recover the money he had paid to these 
individuals. Even if Mr A had sent money directly to the scammers account, I note that he 
didn’t report the fraud until 2 June 2023 – almost a month after the payments were 
made. So, it seems highly unlikely any funds would’ve remained at this point. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr A, and I’m sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, I’m not persuaded Revolut can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman