DRN-4000326
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd is unfairly pursuing her for an 
outstanding debt.
 
What happened
In March 2022 Lantern purchased a debt in Mrs S’ name from another business I’ll call C. 
Mrs S has explained that she had an account with C but it was used to make purchases she 
didn’t authorise. Mrs S has explained that she had problems accessing her online account 
and that the item purchased wasn’t authorised by her or received. 
Mrs S complained about C’s actions and in 2021 an ombudsman at this service looked at 
her case. The ombudsman issued a final decision but wasn’t persuaded C had made a 
mistake and didn’t uphold Mrs S’ complaint. 
Last year, Mrs S complained to Lantern and raised concerns surrounding how the debt had 
come about. Mrs S said she was unfairly being pursued for the debt that had been sold by C. 
Lantern issued a final response but didn’t uphold Mrs S’ complaint and didn’t agree it had 
acted unfairly by contacting her for repayment. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs S’ complaint. They said an ombudsman had 
already considered Mrs S’ complaint about C but hadn’t upheld it. The investigator explained 
that we could only consider Lantern’s actions from the point it purchased the debt and 
couldn’t relook at the purchases made with C. Mrs S asked to appeal and forwarded 
information relating to how the debt had come about with C. As Mrs S asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve been brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree concerning 
the timeline for Mrs S’ case. I understand Mrs S feels her complaint about C remains 
unresolved and has told us she didn’t receive the item she’s been charged for. But here, I’m 
only looking at Lantern’s actions once it acquired the debt in March 2022. Another 
ombudsman has already considered Mrs S’ complaint about C and issued their final 
decision. That final decision related to the circumstances under which the debt came about 
the problems Mrs S has raised concerning C’s systems, whether she was hacked, the credit 
limit and whether the item was received. I’m not going to comment further on these points in 
this decision as they’ve already been covered in the other decision. 
Focusing on Lantern’s action, when it purchased the debt from C it sent Mrs S a Notice of 
Assignment confirming the new arrangement. C also sent a Notice of Assignment that 
confirmed the debt had been sold to Lantern. Those are steps required under the rules both 
businesses operate under. 

Mrs S went on to dispute the debt with Lantern and it contacted C on that basis. I can see 
that C responded and provided a copy of the final decision issued in 2021 that showed it had 
investigated Mrs S’ complaint and that she remained liable for the outstanding balance. 
When a consumer disputes whether a debt is legitimate, we’d expect the new owners to 
raise a dispute with the original lender. I’m satisfied Lantern has done that in this case and 
received confirmation from C by way of the ombudsman’s decision that the balance is 
legitimately owed and remains outstanding.
I’m sorry to disappoint Mrs S but as Lantern has raised the dispute with C and confirmed the 
balance is legitimately owed, I’m not persuaded it’s acted unfairly by contacting her to 
request repayment. As I’m satisfied Lantern dealt with Mrs S’ complaint fairly, I’m not telling 
it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Mrs S’ complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman