DRN-5372096 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr S is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim made under his travel 
insurance policy. 
 
What happened 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Aviva has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it 
mustn’t unreasonably decline a claim. 
  
I know Mr S feels very strongly about his case and that he has been financially impacted by 
Aviva declining his claim. I have a lot of empathy for his situation. But for reasons I’ll go on to 
explain, I’m satisfied Aviva has fairly and reasonably declined his claim.  
 
The policy does cover cancellation claims because of illness. However, there are also some 
listed exclusions to this. One of which is that Aviva: 
 
will not cover any claim for any insured person arising directly or indirectly from: 
 
• Any undiagnosed health problem or symptom for which a diagnosis has been 
sought but not yet received, that the insured person was aware of: 
o Before booking a trip… 
I’ll refer to this as ‘the exclusion’.  
 
I’m satisfied that Aviva has fairly and reasonably relied on the exclusion to decline the claim. 
That’s because: 
 
• The evidence reflects that Mr S attended a consultation with his GP around a day 
before booking his holiday, paying a deposit for his trip.  
• Mr S says that he wasn’t referred for investigations at this consultation. However, I’m 
not persuaded the medical evidence supports this. Mr S’s GP has provided a letter 
dated September 2024 which says that Mr S was seen by them with ongoing urinary 
symptoms. They recommended some further investigations and referred Mr S to a 
urologist.  
• The letter goes on to say that Mr S had been stressed and anxious about this 
following the GP consultation and so ended up cancelling his holiday. This is 
inconsistent with Mr S’s submissions; that when he received contact from the urology 
department the day after booking his holiday, he started to feel very anxious and 

 
 
realised that he wouldn’t enjoy his trip. So, he cancelled before having to pay the 
balance of the amount owed.  
• I’m therefore satisfied that Aviva has reasonably linked the reason which resulted in 
Mr S cancelling the trip (his stress and anxiety) with the urinary symptoms that were 
awaiting a diagnosis at the time he booked his trip and were under investigation. The 
overall evidence supports that Mr S’s anxiety and stress arose from the urinary 
symptoms. 
Mr S is also unhappy that Aviva provided inconsistent reasons for declining the claim. I’m 
satisfied that Aviva quickly acknowledged that and paid Mr S £75 compensation for the 
impact (as reflected in its final response letter dated 24 September 2024). I’m satisfied this 
amount fairly reflects the upset and frustration caused for the claim was handled initially. And 
the inconvenience Mr S experienced, challenging this. 
 
However, ultimately, for the reasons set out above, I’m satisfied that Aviva has fairly declined 
the claim by relying on the exclusion.  
 
My final decision 
I don’t uphold this complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2025. 
   
David Curtis-Johnson 
Ombudsman