DRN-4858685 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society won’t refund money he says he lost to an 
investment scam. 
 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I don’t uphold this complaint and I’ll explain why: 
 
• It isn’t in dispute that Mr R authorised four payments of £10,000 (£40,000 in total) on 
31 August 2018 from his Nationwide account towards what he believed was a 
legitimate investment opportunity with a company I’ll call ‘W’. The payments were 
requested by him using his legitimate security credentials, and the starting point is 
that banks and building societies ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed. 
 
• However, I’ve considered whether Nationwide should have done more to identify that 
Mr R could be falling victim to a scam, as there are some situations in which a bank 
or building society should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly unusual and out 
of character. 
 
• I’ve reviewed Mr R’s Nationwide statements in the 12 months leading up to his 
disputed payments. In my judgement, four payments of £10,000 on the same day 
was sufficiently unusual when considering Mr R’s normal account activity. These 
were the largest amounts he’d paid out of his account during those 12 months. I think 
Nationwide should reasonably have intervened at the point of the first payment to 
ensure that all was well.   
 
• I have no reason to doubt that Mr R would have shared with Nationwide that he was 
investing with W. But I’m not persuaded that disclosing this information would have 
led Nationwide to reasonably suspect that Mr R could have been falling victim to a 
scam. There was no credible adverse information reported about W at the time of Mr 
R’s payments. I’ve noted W wasn’t regulated by the FCA but I’ve also noted that W 
weren’t required to be regulated by the FCA at the time to offer the products it 
offered. And so, even if I think Nationwide should have suggested that Mr W carry 
out some further due diligence checks, I’m not persuaded he would have found 
anything to dissuade him from investing. 
 
• I accept Mr R’s investment with W may have been considered as high risk and 
therefore unsuitable for him but Nationwide was not obliged to provide him with 

 
 
investment advice. In my judgement, Nationwide couldn’t have reasonably identified 
that Mr R could be falling victim to a scam. 
 
• Mr R reported the alleged scam to Nationwide several years after his payments. He 
also didn’t pay W directly and instead paid a regulated third party who passed the 
money onto W. As W had been liquidated, I don’t think recovery was an option for Mr 
R. I don’t think Nationwide had any reasonable prospect of recovering his disputed 
payments in light of; the time that had passed, W’s liquidation and the payments not 
being sent to W directly. 
 
I recognise this will come as a disappointment to Mr R and I’m sorry that he’s lost this 
money. However, I’m not persuaded Nationwide can reasonably be held responsible for his 
loss. 
 
My final decision 
My final decision is, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2024. 
   
Dolores Njemanze 
Ombudsman