DRN-5206092 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr G complains that he has lost out financially because of Interactive Investor Services 
Limited’s (IISL) actions when reversing a contribution made by his company to his self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) in error.  
 
What happened 
The history leading up to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been clearly set 
out in the investigator’s assessment, so I’ve only summarised key events here.  
 
In May 2024 Mr G’s employer made a payment to his SIPP with IISL in error. Part of this 
error appears to be that a GBP payment was made into a USD account. Mr G’s employer 
immediately noticed the error and contacted its bank as well as IISL’s bank to cancel the 
payment. The funds had not been invested into Mr G’s SIPP and so the payment was 
reversed by IISL, and money refunded.  
 
However, Mr G says the sum returned in GBP was about 5% lower than what was originally 
paid. And he raised a complaint with IISL.  
 
IISL investigated things and explained that when the GBP payment was made into the USD 
account, it was immediately converted into USD, matching the currency of the account. The 
same USD value was subsequently refunded, as this was how it was received by IISL. They 
further explained that foreign currency exchange (FX) rates were likely applied by the 
sending and receiving banks and that they had no control over this. IISL confirmed that no 
charges were applied by them.  
 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr G brought his complaint to this service for an independent 
assessment. One of our investigators looked into things and ultimately concluded that IISL 
hadn’t made an error causing a loss to Mr G so he didn’t think the complaint should be 
upheld.  
 
Mr G disagreed and so his complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
And having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for the 
same reasons. There is very little I can add to what has already been explained.  
 
It’s clear to me that Mr G has strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
arguments to support his case which I can confirm I’ve read and carefully considered. 
However, I trust Mr G will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isn’t to address every point 
raised, but instead to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
 

 
 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isn’t intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct – that is the role of the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the 
business has done anything wrong in respect of the individual circumstances of the 
complaint made and – if I find that the business has done something wrong – award 
compensation for any material loss or distress and inconvenience suffered by the 
complainant as a result of this. 
 
I appreciate Mr G’s strength of feeling here as the amount available to his employer to 
contribute to his SIPP has seemingly been reduced through no fault of his own. However, 
even though Mr G’s employer promptly acted to correct things, it is not disputed that it used 
the wrong bank account while attempting to contribute to Mr G’s SIPP. This mistake meant 
that a GBP contribution was paid into a USD account and the currency was converted 
immediately, as is typical when an account is set up to accept only one currency. And when 
the funds were returned by IISL, they had to be converted back to GBP. Therefore, it is likely 
that an FX rate was applied by one or more of the banks involved, either during the initial 
payment or the subsequent refund, or both.  
 
However, I can’t see that IISL had anything to do with the FX rates that were applied. Nor 
am I persuaded that IISL had the ability to stop the currency conversion that occurred when 
GBP was contributed to a USD account. So, I can’t agree that they made a mistake or 
should have done more. 
 
I’ve also seen no evidence to suggest that IISL did anything wrong in returning the funds in 
the same currency that they received. And from all I’ve been provided, IISL returned the 
same value in USD that it received. I’ve seen nothing that suggests to me that IISL 
benefitted financially from this mistake. So ultimately, I’m unable to conclude that it would be 
fair to ask IISL to make up the difference caused by FX rates imposed by third party banks 
over which they don’t have any control.  
 
For completeness, although Mr G has objected to the FX rates used here, I’ve seen no 
evidence that persuades me that these are set or in any way controlled by IISL, therefore I 
am unable to comment in this decision on whether these rates were fair.  
 
Mr G has also expressed concerns that IISL is engaging in and supporting predatory 
practices regarding the FX rates used by their bank more generally. If this remains the case, 
Mr G can raise these concerns directly with the FCA.  
 
For all these reasons, whilst I know Mr G will be disappointed with this outcome, I’m not 
upholding his complaint. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above, I don’t uphold Mr G’s complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2025. 
   
Jennifer Wood 
Ombudsman