DRN-5356962 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr I and Ms I have complained about delays by AXA Insurance UK Plc in settling a claim 
made under their home insurance policy. 
References to AXA in my decision also include its agents. 
What happened 
The history and details of this complaint history are well known to the parties – this is the 
second complaint regarding the ongoing claim Mr I and Ms I have needed to make to AXA. 
In this decision though I am only considering the delay in progress from November 2023 to 
AXA’s final response in April 2024.  
AXA accepted that there had been ongoing delays and communication gaps. It apologised 
and offered £200 in compensation. 
Our investigator noted that works had been agreed, so didn’t comment on a point raised by 
Mr I that the cash settlement offered was too low. With regard to alternative accommodation, 
although agreed initially, the investigator couldn’t see it was required going forward and 
didn’t consider that the property was uninhabitable up to April 2024. But she noted the 
ongoing delays and service issues and felt that the compensation offered was too low. She 
recommended that AXA increase its offer to £350. 
AXA accepted the investigator’s recommendation, but Mr I didn’t. He felt that the 
compensatory amount was unacceptable. He explained that he felt that three years to 
resolve the claim was unreasonable and that insurers should not be allowed to behave in 
that way. He explained that the delay had caused himself and his family great distress and 
anxiety during the years that the claim had been ongoing. 
Mr I also said AXA agreed it was necessary to provide alternative accommodation but 
subsequently refused to provide it. He commented on the dust (and consequential ill health) 
that the ongoing works had caused and said that they had had to get in window and general 
cleaners a number of times to minimise the dust from the works. Mr I felt that the situation 
could have been anticipated by AXA and queried why the offer of alternative accommodation 
was withdrawn. Accordingly, he requested compensation for not being provided with 
alternative accommodation and the loss of the facilities of his home for so long. 
Both parties also sent in further submissions regarding alternative accommodation. Mr I also 
explained further about the dust after the works had commenced. He said the works entailed 
pulling out the old wood flooring and putting in new, as well as a damp membrane. He said 
that installing the new wood flooring required a lot of sanding down, which generated a huge 
amount of dust. He felt that dust containment measures were inadequate – on one occasion 
the equipment used to mitigate the spread of dust failed.  
As no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to determine. I issued a 
provisional decision saying as follows: 

 
 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant regulatory rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustn’t unreasonably reject a claim. So I’ve look at this claim with care to see if AXA 
has treated Mr I and Ms I fairly. I don’t currently find it has and I’ll explain why.  
There is no dispute that there have been delays in the process. As indicated above though, I 
am only considering delays for what was in essence a four-and-a-half-month period. I have 
taken into account what must have been huge frustration, disappointment and 
inconvenience caused to Mr I and Ms I. But I have also to consider the issue of alternative 
accommodation. 
Unfortunately as contractors have changed over the course of the claim, it seems that what 
one said might not have been followed through by another. That said what is apparent from 
an email exchange that Mr I has sent is that in January 2023 he emailed the contractor in the 
following terms: “I am sorry to bother you but we are keen to crack on with the work as soon 
as possible as we do not want the work going into spring time. With that in mind, it would be 
really helpful for you to confirm when the works will be starting and for us to start to get some 
sense of what is available in terms of alternative accommodation hence our request for 
details of agents you use.” 
The contractor responded that it was waiting for a response from a specialist contractor in 
order to confirm how long the property would be uninhabitable for and from when it said that 
once it had this information it would be able to give Mr I details of its accommodation 
supplier. The contractor also explained that at that moment in time it could not give the 
information as it did not know what the accommodation requirement would be. 
It is not clear why or when it was decided that alternative accommodation wasn’t required or 
approved. I accept AXA’s submission that there was no mention of the property being 
uninhabitable in 2021. Further damp was found in September 2022 and there was report 
then and in the following month neither of which mentioned alternative accommodation. In a 
report in October 2023, it was apparent that the property hadn’t been vacated. The most 
recent loss adjuster couldn’t explain why alternative accommodation had initially been 
offered but didn’t feel that the remaining works caused the property to be uninhabitable – 
although he conceded that they would have caused disruption. He said: There has been 
several sandings of the wooden floor which has had dust spreading through the entire 
house, we will be looking at agreeing the insureds costs for their own supplier to arrange a 
full house clean we will be reporting further on payment to the insured on final matters 
shortly. 
I understand Mr I’s argument that they should have been provided alternative 
accommodation. And I can appreciate too why he believes this was warranted. Additionally, I 
can’t see that he was ever told specifically that it wouldn’t be provided. But as our 
investigator explained alternative accommodation is justified where the property is 
uninhabitable, often due to lack of facilities for cooking and cleaning. We do look at each 
case individually when deciding whether a property is uninhabitable, to decide whether it is 
fair and reasonable to say the consumers can live in the property. Here I’m not persuaded 
that the property was uninhabitable, facilities were available as well as the bedrooms and the 
dust issue only really escalated when the works did.  
Nevertheless after the works commenced I accept how difficult I was to live in a house that 
was extremely dusty I’m sorry to note that the family suffered from ailments. I understand 
that it was necessary to employ cleaners on more than one occasion and I’m satisfied that 
that expenses should be reimbursed, if they haven’t already been. 
 
 
AXA is under a regulatory duty to handle claims promptly. It concedes that it didn’t do so 
here. That would have been frustrating in the circumstances of any claim but here I find the 
situation was exacerbated, at least for some time, by the damp and dusty home in which the 
family were living. That is not to say that AXA was obliged to provide alternative 
accommodation for the reason given. But speed was absolutely of the essence in the 
handling of the claim and Mr I and Ms I suffered when the claim wasn’t progressed as 
timeously as it might have been.  
I find that compensation is merited for the delays and poor communication. AXA has agreed 
to pay £350 for the period referred to above. But I’m satisfied that the distress and great 
inconvenience caused by the knock-on effect of the delays warrants greater compensation. 
I’m minded to require AXA to pay £1000 in total. I also require it to reimburse Mr I for any 
cleaning costs he can evidence. It seems that AXA has agreed to this, but it is not clear what 
has been paid to date.   
I’m invited the parties to provide any further comments or evidence for me to consider. I 
advised that unless the information changed my mind, my final decision was likely to be 
along the lines of my provisional decision. 
AXA responded with further comments.  It said it had in total already paid £1000 comp to the 
insured. It paid £500 in November 2023 (increased following an ombudsman’s decision to 
£800) and then AXA paid another £200 for this most recent complaint. As the delays in 
question were from November 2023 to April 2024 an additional £800 on this for five months 
it felt appear to be excessive. 
AXA also pointed out that Mr I was advised on 13 December 2023 that contractors were 
unable to continue as there were some maintenance issues causing damp that the insured 
would need to resolve. Works were completed 24 January 2024 but the issues regarding the 
perimeter damp course had not been addressed. This was highlighted on 01 March 2024. A 
possible cash settlement for the claim related works was then discussed but Mr I wanted 
insurer’s contractors to complete the works.  
So whilst AXA agreed there had been avoidable delays on its part, it said that the above 
should be taken into consideration and that 2 ½ months were not delays it caused.  
Mr I didn’t reply. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I’ve carefully considered AXA’s further submissions but having done so I’m not minded to 
change my provisional decision and I adopt the findings here. 
I do recognise that the delay acknowledged was for a relatively short period, not all of AXA’s 
making. But in my provisional decision I was looking at the issue of alternative 
accommodation as well. I found that Mr I hadn’t been given a definitive answer. The other 
issue that Mr I raised, and AXA agreed to consider, was the impact of living in the property 
whilst works causing an enormous amount of dust were ongoing. So I remain of the opinion 
that in recognition of this it was all the more important for AXA to ensure there were no 
delays. This didn’t always happen, and I’m satisfied that Mr and Mrs I suffered as a result. In 
these circumstances I remain satisfied that a total of £1000 compensation, less any amount 
if already paid for this period, is merited. This is for both distress, inconvenience and 
physical discomfort to two policyholders, Mr I and Ms I. 
 
 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to: 
• Pay Mr I and Ms I £1000 in compensation. 
• Reimburse Mr I and Ms I any cleaning costs they can evidence that they have paid 
during the claim period and not yet reimbursed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr I and Ms I to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2025. 
  
   
Lindsey Woloski 
Ombudsman