DRN-4363237
Complaint
Mr D has complained about a personal loan Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as “Tesco 
Bank”) provided to him. 
He says that he doesn’t think that the appropriate checks were conducted as if they had 
been he wouldn’t have been lent to.
Background
Tesco Bank provided Mr D with a loan for £8,000.00 in May 2019. 
Mr D’s loan had an APR of 9% and a term of 60 months. This meant that the total amount to 
be repaid of £9,882.00, which included interest, fees and charges of £1,882.00, was due to 
be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £164.70. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr D and Tesco Bank had told us. And she thought 
that Tesco Bank hadn’t done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly. So she didn’t 
recommend that Mr D’s complaint be upheld. 
Mr D disagreed with our investigator’s assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And I’ve used this approach to help me decide Mr D’s complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I’ve not been persuaded to uphold Mr D’s complaint. 
I’ll explain why in a little more detail. 
Tesco Bank needed to make sure that it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Tesco Bank needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr D could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lender’s checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think it’s reasonable for a lender’s checks to be less 
thorough – in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it – in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower’s income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So we’d expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didn’t continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.

Tesco Bank says it agreed to Mr D’s application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out. In its view, all of this information showed Mr D 
could afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr D has said he should never have been provided with this loan 
because of his existing indebtedness and financial position.
I’ve carefully thought about what Mr D and Tesco Bank have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this wasn’t simply a case of Tesco Bank accepting an 
over-optimistic declaration of monthly disposable income at face value.
Tesco Bank’s credit searches did show that Mr D had some existing debts. But it’s fair to say 
that these weren’t excessive and that at the time of the application at least, they were being 
reasonably managed. I appreciate that Mr D has disputed the amount he was deemed to be 
indebted by and in particular he’s provided bank statements showing that he was overdrawn 
and the reasons for this. 
But even if Mr D was overdrawn by as much as £4,000.00 I don’t that this would have meant 
that Tesco Bank shouldn’t have lent to him, or that this means that Tesco Bank had to ask 
him for copies of his bank statements. I say this as Mr D could quite easily have cleared an 
overdraft of £4,000.00 with some of the funds he was being advanced through this loan – 
especially as it had a much lower interest rate than any overdraft. 
I accept that Mr D says he experienced difficulty making the payments. And I’m sorry to hear 
this. But it’s only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
respondent firm did something wrong. Tesco Bank could only make a decision on the basis 
of the information it had. 
Given the amount of the monthly payments and the lack of obvious indicators of any recent 
difficulty in the information Tesco Bank did obtain, I don’t think that it was unfair for Tesco 
Bank to have concluded that there wasn’t a need to obtain further information. 
Equally given what it saw and this being a first loan, I’m satisfied that Tesco Bank was 
reasonably entitled to believe that it wouldn’t be increasing Mr D’s existing indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful either. 
As this is the case, I don’t think that Tesco Bank did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr D - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I don’t think that Tesco Bank treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And I’m not upholding Mr D’s complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr D. But I hope he’ll understand the reasons for my decision and that 
he’ll at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m not upholding Mr D’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman