DRN-4077350
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S (“The Estate”) believes that National Westminster Bank Plc (“NatWest”) 
provided credit to the late Mrs S which wasn’t affordable for her at that time.
This complaint is brought to this service on behalf of The Estate by the daughter of the late 
Mrs S, whom I’ll refer to as Mrs W.
What happened
In July 2021, Mrs W complained to NatWest in her capacity as The Estate about several 
historical instances of credit provision – from the 1990’s onwards – to the late Mrs S by 
NatWest. NatWest responded by Mrs W and explained that they didn’t feel the complaint 
was one they could consider because of the passage of time that had elapsed since the 
events being complained about. Mrs W wasn’t satisfied with NatWest’s response, so she 
referred The Estate’s complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didn’t feel that there was 
reasonable or sufficient evidence that NatWest had provided credit to the late Mrs S 
irresponsibly as Mrs W believed, and so they didn’t uphold the complaint. Mrs W remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to consider upholding a complaint such as this one – where the complainant 
maintains that the respondent business has provided credit to one of its customers which 
that customer couldn’t reasonably afford – I’d need to see evidence both that the customer in 
question couldn’t reasonably afford the credit they were provided with and that the business 
providing the credit should have been aware of this fact, based on the information about that 
customer which they either did or should have obtained before providing the credit.
This evidence often takes the form of creditworthiness assessments conducted by the 
business before providing the credit, in conjunction with an understanding of the customer’s 
financial position at that time, obtained from personal testimony as well as from a review of 
that person’s credit file. 
In this instance, however, all the provisions of credit by NatWest to the late Mrs S took place 
over a decade ago. And this means that the information and evidence needed to confirm 
whether NatWest did or didn’t provide credit to the late Mrs S irresponsibly at those times no 
longer exists. And nor would it be reasonably expected to still exist, given the length of time 
since the events in question and the requirements for businesses such as NatWest to only 
hold information for a set amount of time – usually six years.
For instance, it’s known that NatWest increased the credit limit available to the late Mrs S in 
June 2004. But there isn’t a record of what checks NatWest undertook regarding the 

financial position of the late Mrs S at that time before providing this further credit, or what the 
results of those checks were. 
It could be argued that this means there’s no record that the late Mrs S could reasonably 
afford the further credit that she was provided with in 2004. But it can be correspondingly 
and equally argued that there’s no record that the late Mrs S couldn’t afford that further credit 
at that time, such that it was being provided to her irresponsibly.
This isn’t to say that NatWest did or didn’t provide credit to the late Mrs S that she couldn’t 
reasonably afford. But it is to say that, ultimately, I don’t feel that there’s sufficient 
information or evidence surviving from the provisions of credit under consideration here 
which would fairly and impartially allow me to consider upholding this complaint. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Mrs W was wanting, but I hope that she can 
understand, given what I’ve explained, why I’ve made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman