DRN-4948344 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr B says the indemnity Aviva Insurance Limited provides as part of his legal expenses 
insurance policy is insufficient to cover claims under the policy.  
What happened 
Mr B has a dispute with his neighbour. He sought assistance from his legal expenses 
insurance in 2021. Aviva referred the matter to panel solicitors for an assessment of whether 
the claim had reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of the policy). As part of their 
initial assessment the solicitors set out the potential costs of pursuing the matter to 
conclusion (including the need to make provision for adverse costs).  Those costs were in 
excess of the £50,000 indemnity limit Mr B’’s policy contained.   
Mr B complained the policy wasn’t fit for purpose because the indemnity it provided would 
never be sufficient to pursue court action in relation to the insured events it covered. Aviva 
said the indemnity limit was set out in the information it was responsible for. And the costs 
involved in pursuing legal action would vary greatly depending on the type of claim.  
Our investigator thought that indemnity limit had been made clear in the policy information 
which Aviva was responsible for. And it was for Mr B to decide whether the cover met his 
needs when taking out and renewing the policy.  
Mr B didn’t agree. He accepted the indemnity limit had been made clear by Aviva. However, 
he said the issue was whether that limit meant the insurance contract was fit for purpose. He 
said if the matter was considered by the courts they would consider whether the terms were 
unreasonable or unrealistic. He thought it was unfair of Aviva to include a limit that wouldn’t 
enable a policyholder to achieve the outcomes contained in the policy. And in his case given 
the projected costs exceeded the indemnity limit Aviva knew it wouldn’t commence court 
action from the outset. So I need to reach a final decision.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr B’s complaint includes concerns about how his legal expenses claim has 
been handled (in particular Aviva’s decision to withdraw cover on the basis it wasn’t 
proportionate to pursue). However, we’ve considered those separately (as Aviva also did). 
So in this decision I’m only considering Mr B’s concerns about the indemnity limit that 
applies to his policy.  

 
 
Under the relevant rules (the Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook – ICOBS) Aviva is 
responsible for producing information about the policy which ensures consumers can make 
an informed decision about whether to purchase. That’s likely to include information about 
the main benefits, exclusions and limitations of the policy. I think the indemnity limit is 
therefore something Aviva should have drawn to Mr B’s attention in the information it was 
responsible for.  
It doesn’t seem to be in dispute it did so. The limit is referenced in the policy terms (which 
explain it will pay up to the amount shown in the policy schedule). I’ve also seen a policy 
summary which specifically references the indemnity limit. And Mr B has accepted Aviva 
made the limit clear to him. So I don’t think it’s done anything wrong here.  
However, I appreciate Mr B’s argument is more about whether that limit is in itself fair. He 
says it wasn’t sufficient to cover the claim he wanted to bring (based on the estimates from 
the panel solicitor) and he doesn’t believe it would be enough to cover the other insured 
incidents his policy contains.  
 
Mr B has referenced the approach the courts might take to this issue. But if he wants a court 
ruling on the matter he’d need to bring the issue before the courts. Under our rules I’m 
required to determine complaints based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. And in doing so I’m required to take into account, amongst other 
things, relevant law.  
 
As Mr B is suggesting the level of indemnity is unfair I’ve considered whether this could be 
an unfair contract term. The Consumer Rights Act (and accompanying guidance) sets out 
the things that could make a contract term unfair – essentially where a term creates a 
significant imbalance in the rights of the parties to the detriment of the consumer. But in 
deciding if a term could be unfair the Act also identifies the need to take into account the 
subject matter of the contract, all the circumstances existing when the term was agreed and 
all the other terms of the contract. 
 
Given that context, it’s important to note there’s no insurance policy which covers everything  
that may result in a policyholder experiencing financial loss. The provision of insurance is  
always subject to terms and conditions and these have the effect of limiting the insurer’s  
liabilities to its policyholders. And so such terms are not inherently unfair or unreasonable. 
In this case (and in common with other insurers) Aviva is seeking to limit the amount it will 
pay towards a legal expenses claim through the inclusion of the £50,000 indemnity limit. 
 
I don’t think it’s unreasonable of Aviva in principle to include restrictions on the amount it  
will pay. And I don’t think that that limiting cover in this way creates a significant imbalance 
between Mr B and Aviva. The policy terms don’t prevent Mr B from taking legal action but  
simply limits the amount of cover Aviva will provide for this. Nor do I think it’s unfair to Mr B 
to set that limit at £50,000. Insurers are generally entitled to decide what cover they want to 
provide in exchange for the premium they charge. I appreciate some other insurers do offer 
a higher indemnity limit but the £50,000 limit Aviva provides is in line with many other 
policies available in the market.  
 
I don’t agree that limit prevents a policyholder from obtaining the cover provided by the 
policy either. The policy explains the cover provided is for costs and expenses up to the “limit 
shown on your schedule”. “Costs and expenses” is defined as “All legal costs charged by the 
lawyer and authorised by us or that you are ordered to pay by a court/other body.” So the 
cover for the insured events set out in the policy is limited in that way. And that limit would 
apply both to the costs of Mr B’s solicitor and any adverse costs he was ordered to pay.  
 
 
I appreciate that will mean in some cases the costs of pursuing a claim to conclusion would 
exceed the policy indemnity limit. But I don’t agree that would be the case for all claims 
covered by the insured incidents set out in the policy. My experience of dealing with other 
complaints is that funding at that level has been sufficient to achieve a successful outcome 
for a policyholder.  
And given Mr B’s claim was being progressed by Aviva (until issues arose over whether it 
was proportionate to pursue) I don’t think he is right to say Aviva knew from the outset court 
action wouldn’t be funded. If Aviva had been satisfied Mr B’s claim continued to meet the 
policy terms (and I’ve considered the decision it reached on that separately) it would have 
continued to fund the claim up to the indemnity limit. And for the reasons I’ve explained I 
don’t think it was unfair of Aviva to include that limit in Mr B’s policy.  
My final decision 
I’ve decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 25 September 2024. 
   
James Park 
Ombudsman