DRN-4123479
The complaint
Mrs E complains about the way WDP Insurance Limited responded to her claim after she 
accidentally damaged her mobile phone.
What happened
Mrs E had mobile phone insurance underwritten by WDP. She claimed under the policy after 
her phone was damaged. WDP asked Mrs E to pay the excess and send the phone for 
repair. Because Mrs E didn’t send the phone, WDP then charged her a non-return fee.
Mrs E complained to WDP that it hadn’t made her aware of the policy excess or non-return 
fee. She needed to wipe her personal data from the phone, which she didn’t know how to do, 
so she didn’t send her phone to WDP.
WDP looked into Mrs E’s complaint. It told her the fees were clearly stated in the policy, so it 
didn’t think Mrs E had been treated unfairly. 
Mrs E remained unhappy with its response. She said she was no longer using the damaged 
phone, but she was still making payment. Mrs E thought WDP should refund her premiums, 
so she brought her complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didn’t uphold Mrs E’s complaint. He said WDP’s response to Mrs E was 
consistent with the policy wording, so there was no reason for it to refund her premiums.
Mrs E didn’t agree. Her comments were largely about the complaints process, but she made 
it clear that she still felt WDP had treated her unfairly.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I’ve decided not to uphold Mrs E’s complaint.
There’s no dispute about the actual claim – the phone screen was accidentally damaged. 
The issue of complaint is about WDP’s request for payment of fees. For me to uphold Mrs 
E’s complaint, I’d need to be persuaded that, on balance, WDP didn’t handle the claim in line 
with the policy.
Looking at the evidence, WDP charged two fees. One is the excess which is payable 
immediately upon making a claim. The second is a fee charged for failing to return the phone 
to WDP for assessment as requested.
Mrs E said no one ever told her about the additional fees. Turning to the policy, it confirms 
that payment of the policy excess is required when registering a claim. The policy also 
confirms that if the mobile isn’t sent to WDP, it will charge a non-return fee. That’s because 

WDP processes the replacement phone before receiving the damaged phone. In its 
response to Mrs E’s complaint, WDP provided the relevant policy wording. I’m satisfied that 
Mrs E was made aware that her policy had an excess and that she’d be charged a fee for 
failing to return her phone. Therefore, I think WDP responded fairly to Mrs E’s claim.
Mrs E wants WDP to refund her premiums in full because she has a device she isn’t using, 
yet she’s still paying. I’ve looked at all the evidence, but I haven’t seen anything to indicate 
WDP acted unreasonably. It responded promptly to Mrs E’s claim, though she chose not to 
follow the full process. WDP directed her to customer services for assistance with removing 
sensitive information from her phone so she could send it for repair or replacement. And the 
option was available to Mrs E to cancel the policy.
Overall, the evidence indicates that WDP handled Mrs E’s claim in line with the policy terms 
and conditions, but it was unable to progress the claim because Mrs E didn’t send her 
phone. I won’t be asking WDP to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above, my final decision is that I don’t uphold Mrs E’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman