DRN-5244303 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss F complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money was irresponsible in its 
lending to her. She wants all interest and charges on her account refunded along with 8% 
simple interest and any adverse information recorded on her credit file regarding this 
account removed.  
Miss F is represented by a third party but for ease of reference I have referred to Miss F 
throughout this decision.  
What happened 
Miss F was provided with a Virgin Money credit card in July 2018 with a £3,200 credit limit. 
The credit limit was reduced in May 2020 to £2,200 and the account closed in April 2021.  
Miss F says that adequate checks weren’t carried out before the credit card account was 
provided to ensure the lending was affordable. 
Virgin Money issued a final response dated 10 July 2024. It said that through the application 
process, Miss F declared an annual income of £18,000. It said it reviewed the information 
provided by Miss F and that received from the credit reference agencies against its lending 
criteria and the appropriate credit limit was assigned. It said there was nothing provided at 
the time of application that indicated that Miss F was in financial difficulties. It said no arrears 
were recorded on Miss F’s account while it was open. 
Miss F referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the checks carried out by Virgin Money before Miss F’s account 
was opened and the results of these. He noted that a disposable income of around £273 
was recorded but said he wasn’t persuaded how accurate this was based on the limited 
information about how it was calculated. He thought Virgin Money should have done more to 
ensure the lending was affordable for Miss F especially given she already had a relatively 
high amount of credit. He thought that Miss F’s outgoings should have been confirmed. 
Because our investigator didn’t think that proportionate checks had taken place, he 
considered what Virgin Money would likely have identified had these checks occurred. He 
looked at the information contained in Miss F’s bank statements for the three months leading 
up to the account being opened. Based on this, he found that further checks would have 
shown the lending to be affordable for Miss F. Therefore, he didn’t uphold this complaint. 
Miss F didn’t agree with our investigator’s view. She said that when she took out the Virgin 
Money account, she already had multiple debts and was struggling to pay her priority bills. 
She said she couldn’t afford the Virgin Money repayments and took out another loan to pay 
off the account. She said the stress of her debt and threat of debt collectors affected her 
mental health. 
As a resolution hasn’t been agreed, this case has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
issue a decision.  

 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending – including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice – is set out on our website. 
The rules don’t set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to 
carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, and the 
total cost of the credit. 
Before the credit card account was opened, Virgin Money gathered information about 
Miss F’s employment and income and carried out a credit search. Miss F said she was 
employed with a gross annual income of £18,000. The credit check recorded Miss F having 
£13,226 of unsecured debt and monthly repayments for credit commitments of around £370. 
It isn’t clear what data was used to assess Miss F’s expenditure, but Virgin Money recorded 
her has having a disposable income of around £273. Given Miss F’s level of existing debt 
and the repayments due on this compared to Miss F’s income and noting the credit limit 
Virgin Money was offering, I think that further checks should have been carried out. As our 
investigator said, I think a review of Miss F’s expenses as well as her income should have 
been undertaken to ensure the lending would be affordable. 
Virgin Money wasn’t required to request copies of Miss F’s bank statements but as I think it 
needed to get a clear understanding of her income and expenditure, I have used the 
information in these to establish what further checks would likely have identified.  
Miss F’s bank statements for the three months leading up to the lending show that her 
average monthly income from her salary was around £1,720. She was also receiving 
additional payments into the account. She was making payments for bills and her credit 
commitments which totalled around £720 a month. Adding to this monthly repayments for 
the Virgin Money credit card based on a £3,200 credit limit, would leave Miss F with around 
£800 for her other living costs such as food and fuel. Based on this, I do not find that further 
checks would have suggested the lending to be unaffordable. 
I have considered the comments Miss F has made about her circumstances at the time and I 
am sorry to hear that she was struggling and her mental health was affected. But I have to 
make my decision based on the information that was available to Virgin Money at the time. 
As I do not find that further checks would have shown the lending to be unaffordable, I do 
not find I can uphold this complaint.  
I’ve also considered whether Virgin Money acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way 
given what Miss F has complained about, including whether its relationship with Miss F 
might have been unfair under Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. However, for 
the reasons I’ve already given, I don’t think Virgin Money lent irresponsibly to Miss F or 
otherwise treated her unfairly in relation to this matter. I haven’t seen anything to suggest 
that Section 140A would, given the facts of this complaint, lead to a different outcome here. 
 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss F to accept or 
 
 
reject my decision before 19 February 2025. 
   
Jane Archer 
Ombudsman