DRN-4711805 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr and Mrs W have complained about a mortgage they held with Principality Building 
Society. They’ve said that they wanted a five-year fixed rate product and it wasn’t made 
clear to them that the fixed rate they took had a set end date, rather than it being fixed for 
five years from completion. 
What happened 
Mr and Mrs W applied for this mortgage through a mortgage broker to buy a property.  
The mortgage offer dated 28 November 2018 showed they were borrowing £150,000 (plus 
fees) over a term of five years on an interest only basis. The product was described as ‘a 
fixed rate of 1.85% until 30 November 2023. After 30 November 2023 the Principality 
Building Society’s Standard Variable Rate, currently 5.05%, will apply.’ 
The mortgage completed in February 2019. 
Mr and Mrs W say, in October 2023, they wanted to confirm the specific maturity date and to 
do this they needed to register for online servicing. They said it was at that time they noticed 
the fixed rate product would end in November 2023 and raised the matter with Principality. 
Our Investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. He said that the mortgage offer was clear, and 
it was the responsibility of the broker to ensure the mortgage product was suitable. In terms 
of the notice given of the fixed rate ending he didn’t think Principality had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr and Mrs W didn’t agree and so the case was passed to me to decide. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W’s strength of feeling regarding this complaint. I’d like to assure 
them that I’ve read and considered everything they’ve told us. I trust they won’t take it as a 
discourtesy that I’ve condensed their complaint in the way that I have.  
Mr and Mrs W have referred to various parts of the regulator’s rules. I’ve taken all those 
matters into account in deciding this complaint. Although I’ve read and considered the whole 
file, I’ll keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific 
point, it’s not because I’ve not considered it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent from, 
consumers and businesses. 
I note that Mr and Mrs W have referred to the consumer duty. But it only came into force on 
31 July 2023 for open products and services and 31 July 2024 for closed products and 
services. This mortgage would have come under open products and services which means 
the consumer duty took effect from 31 July 2023. The event being complained about here 

 
 
happened before that – that is, the complaint relates to what happened when the mortgage 
was taken out in 2018/2019 – and the duty is not retrospective (either for open or closed 
products), so it does not apply here. 
The fixed rate Mr and Mrs W applied for was always due to end on 30 November 2023. That 
was explained in the contractual mortgage offer of 28 November 2018. It didn’t matter 
whether the mortgage completed in November 2018 or February 2019, the fixed rate would 
always run until 30 November 2023.  
The offer says: 
• “This is an interest only mortgage with a fixed rate of 1.85% until 30 November 2023. 
After 30 November 2023 the Principality Building Society’s Standard Variable Rate, 
currently 5.05%, will apply. The standard variable rate applicable to your mortgage is 
determined by Principality Building Society.” 
• “A fixed rate of 1.85% until 30 November 2023. After 30 November 2023 the Principality 
Building Society’s Standard Variable Rate, currently 5.05%, will apply. 
This mortgage was introduced by a mortgage broker, so it wasn’t Principality’s responsibility 
to advise Mr and Mrs W about the terms of the product they’d selected and ensure it was 
suitable for their needs. The application form was filled in and submitted to Principality by 
Mr and Mrs W’s broker, and Principality then set up the mortgage as requested.  
The mortgage broker wasn’t appointed by - or acting on behalf of – Principality. The 
mortgage broker was appointed by - and acting on behalf of - Mr and Mrs W. There was no 
regulatory requirement for Principality to replicate the role of the mortgage broker and 
separately ensure the advice was suitable. So, the fact it didn’t check the length of the fixed 
rate was suitable for Mr and Mrs W’s needs, and that they understood it was fixed until a set 
date, isn’t something I can blame it for as it simply wasn’t Principality’s responsibility to do 
so. 
It also had no responsibility to inform Mr and Mrs W that they may want to revisit the product 
that had been selected when completion went past the original deadline set out in the 
mortgage offer. Principality simply set out the terms of the contract in the mortgage offer and 
it was up to Mr and Mrs W whether they wanted to accept that.  
If Mr and Mrs W feel they should have been re-advised about the suitability of the product 
and/or had a new product selected when the mortgage offer was extended then that’s 
something they’ll need to take up directly with their mortgage broker as the broker is 
responsible for the suitability of the fixed rate product, not Principality.  
Contrary to Mr and Mrs W’s belief, it isn’t usual for a new mortgage offer to be issued when a 
completion deadline is extended as the contract remains the same (other than the deadline 
being extended slightly). I wouldn’t expect a mortgage offer to be reissued in those 
circumstances as there is no regulatory need to do so. At the end of January 2019 
Principality notified Mr and Mrs W’s solicitor and mortgage broker that the offer had been 
extended until 18 March 2019 and that is all I would expect to happen in such 
circumstances. 
Some lenders offer their fixed rates for a set time period (such as 60 monthly payments), 
others offer their fixed rates until a set date in time (such as until 30 November 2023). 
Neither is right or wrong, and both are completely acceptable ways to set up a fixed rate, 
provided the documentation sets out the details clearly. I’m satisfied that it’s clear from the 
mortgage offer in this case that the fixed rate would end on a set date and Mr and Mrs W 
went ahead and completed the mortgage on that basis. 
 
 
Mr and Mrs W’s submissions have conflated the role of their appointed mortgage broker with 
the responsibilities of Principality. It was the role of their broker to give suitable advice (that 
is to recommend a fixed rate product that would run for the ‘correct’ time period) and to 
ensure Mr and Mrs W understood the nature of the contract they were entering into (that is, 
that the rate was fixed until a set end date). The broker applied for a product that was fixed 
until 30 November 2023 so Mr and Mrs W got the product that had been applied for. 
To be clear, I’m not saying Mr and Mrs W’s broker did anything wrong as that isn’t a 
complaint that has been passed to me to review and decide, I’m simply explaining why 
Principality didn’t do anything wrong as the things Mr and Mrs W are attributing to it weren’t 
its responsibility. 
Principality did everything it was required to do and set the terms of the contract out in a way 
that’s prescribed by the regulator. For all the reasons given I’ve got no grounds to uphold 
this part of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs W have also said they weren’t given due notice of their monthly payments going 
up and that they also didn’t receive anything during the mortgage term that would have 
alerted them to the interest rate end date. 
Principality’s mortgage conditions booklet said:  
7.7 Where the interest rate is not the standard rate or linked to the standard rate, but the 
terms of the offer letter provide for it to revert to our standard rate or a rate which is 
linked to our standard rate (“the reversion”), we will give you written notice of the current 
standard rate no less than 14 days prior to the reversion. 
Mr and Mrs W were sent a mortgage statement every year and that would have set out the 
details of their mortgage, including that the fixed rate ran until 30 November 2023. In 
addition, they were sent a letter on 14 November 2023 which said that the monthly payment 
would change from 1 December 2023 because the fixed rate would have ended and the 
account moved to the standard variable rate. The letter set out what the new interest rate 
and monthly payment would be. As that letter was sent more than 14 days before the 
reversion, Principality did what it said it would do. 
The Financial Conduct Authority’s Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (“MCOB”) expressly states the following at MCOB 7.6.1R: 
‘A firm must give the customer reasonable notice, in advance, of: 
(1)   any changes to the payments that the customer is required to make resulting from 
interest rate changes’ 
The letter was issued before the interest rate (and therefore payment) changed – and I don’t 
think the period of notice of 14 days was inherently unreasonable. There’s no requirement in 
MCOB or elsewhere for 30 days or 60 days or any other specific period. Mr and Mrs W had 
been on notice from the outset that a rate change was scheduled for 1 December 2023 
when the fixed rate ended, with a reminder of that in the annual mortgage statements.  
I’ve already found that I think it was clear that the fixed rate only ran until 30 November 
2023, and that after that date Mr and Mrs W would be charged the standard variable rate. 
The standard variable rate was 5.05% in 2018, but had increased to 7.60% by the time the 
November 2023 letter was sent as wider interest rates had risen.  
I appreciate that the large increase in payments came as a shock to Mr and Mrs W, and 
 
 
where an interest rate change causes financial difficulty I would expect a lender to show 
reasonable forbearance. But I don’t think it would be fair to have expected Principality to 
have extended the fixed interest rate beyond 30 November 2023, as it was only ever 
available to that date. Principality offered to discuss a new rate with Mr and Mrs W as it said 
it had rates available that didn’t have early repayment charges, and if Mr and Mrs W had 
decided to take one of those it would have backdated the rate to 1 December 2023. That 
seems fair. 
However, even if I’d found Mr and Mrs W hadn’t been given reasonable notice in advance of 
the change in their monthly payments, the regulations don’t set out the consequences if a 
firm fails to comply – they don’t say, for example, that if a firm doesn’t give reasonable notice 
of a payment change then it can’t change the payment. 
It would therefore have been a matter for me to decide whether I thought it was fair and 
reasonable for Principality to have changed the monthly payments on Mr and Mrs W’s 
mortgage even if I thought it arguably hadn’t given them reasonable notice. As I’ve said, the 
rate ended on 30 November 2023 and there would be no grounds for me to say that should 
have been extended, so Mr and Mrs W’s payment always would have changed from 
1 December 2023. Principality had already offered to look at a new rate (without an early 
repayment charge) with Mr and Mrs W and if one was selected it said it would backdate that 
to 1 December 2023. If Mr and Mrs W had said they couldn’t afford the new monthly 
payments for the few months they had left to run on the mortgage term then I have no 
reason to believe Principality wouldn’t have acted in line with its responsibility to offer 
forbearance. 
Having considered everything very carefully I don’t uphold this complaint. 
My final decision 
I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2024.   
Julia Meadows 
Ombudsman