DRN-4354030
The complaint
Mrs P complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) handled a 
claim under her motor insurance policy following the attempted theft of her vehicle. 
Any reference to Advantage in this decision includes their agents. 
This decision covers Mrs P’s complaint about how Advantage dealt with damage to a wall 
caused during the attempted theft of her vehicle. It doesn’t cover other issues arising from 
the incident, including how Advantage dealt with her claim for damage to her vehicle.
What happened
In September 2021 Mrs P’s vehicle was subject to an attempted theft while parked on her 
driveway. The thieves weren’t successful, but in attempting to steal it the vehicle hit a wall on 
the driveway, damaging both. Mrs P contacted Advantage to tell them about the incident and 
lodge a claim. Advantage accepted the claim for damage to the vehicle, which was repaired.
On the damage to the wall, normally Advantage would have told Mrs P to contact her home 
insurance provider to make a claim under that policy. However, due to her being provided 
with incorrect advice, Advantage made an exception in the circumstances of Mrs P’s case 
and agreed to cover this aspect of the damage.
In April 2022 Advantage asked Mrs P to obtain quotes for repair of the wall from three 
builders. Mrs P provided quotes, but Advantage said they didn’t break down the costs of 
repair, including between labour and materials. In July 2022 Advantage appointed a 
contractor (C) to assess the damage and they visited Mrs P’s property to inspect the wall. 
C contacted Mrs P to say the three quotes (ranging from £4,500 through £4,800 to £4,900 
including VAT) were too high for what they thought should be the cost of repairing the wall. C 
also asked Mrs P to obtain a detailed breakdown of the lowest quote (which she provided).
C then offered Mrs P £2,998 to settle the claim, based on a detailed assessment of the work 
required, including labour and materials (compared to the quote for £4,500). Mrs P wasn’t 
happy with the offer as it was significantly lower than the quotes she’d obtained, so would be 
significantly out of pocket. She was also unhappy that, having told Advantage about the 
damage to the wall at the same time she told them about the attempted theft, it had taken 
nearly a year for Advantage to appoint a contractor and make her an offer for the repair of 
the wall. She didn’t want to make a claim for the damage to the wall under her home 
insurance policy, as she thought the length of time since the incident meant it unlikely her 
home insurer would accept a claim.
Advantage didn’t uphold the complaint. They noted C’s position they couldn’t accept (or 
authorise) the lowest quote provided by Mrs P, as they considered it overstated. So, Mrs P 
would either have to approach her home insurance provider to make a claim for the damage 
or provide another (lower) estimate from a different builder.
Mrs P then complained to this service. She said Advantage asked for three quotes for the 
repair of the wall, which she’d provided. But she didn’t hear back for months and had to 

chase Advantage. She would be out of pocket if she accepted Advantage’s offer. She 
wanted Advantage to either repair the wall or pay her £4,500 (the lowest quote) so she could 
have the wall repaired. She also wanted Advantage to refund her motor insurance policy 
premium. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Advantage hadn’t acted fairly. She noted 
Advantage had agreed to cover the cost of repairing the wall and asked Mrs P for three 
quotes. While two quotes didn’t provide a breakdown between labour and materials, the third 
quote set out the scope of work at a total of £4,500 (including VAT). And C had provided their 
own, costed estimate. She didn’t think it was possible to determine which was the more 
persuasive, although C would be experienced in assessing claims and the likely cost of 
repairing the wall. 
As Advantage and Mrs P couldn’t agree, the investigator thought Advantage (having agreed 
to cover the costs of repair) should either source an appropriate contractor to complete the 
repairs or (if they were unable or unwilling to do so) reimburse Mrs P for the cost of repairing 
the wall, based on receipt of an invoice clearly itemising the labour and material costs for the 
work. Or pay her the average of the four quotes/estimates (£4,299.50). If Mrs P didn’t want 
Advantage to handle the claim further, she had the option to make a [new] claim under her 
home insurance policy.
Our investigator also considered the delays in handling the claim and communication issues, 
noting Advantage agreed Mrs P experienced issues and awarded her £135 compensation. 
She thought Advantage could have progressed things more efficiently and Mrs P had been 
inconvenienced from having to contact Advantage for updates. She thought £135 would be 
fair and reasonable compensation.
Advantage disagreed with the investigator’s view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said only one of the three quotes provided by Mrs P contained a detailed 
breakdown between labour and materials. C had reviewed the quote and provided their own 
estimate of the repair cost, concluding the quote was overstated. Advantage said they 
weren’t obliged (as the motor policy insurer) to cover the cost of repairing the wall, which 
normally would be claimed through a home insurance policy. So, Mrs P was benefiting from 
their offer to cover the cost of repairing the wall. Mrs P would also be in ‘betterment’ from 
their offer, as she would only be making one claim for the incident rather than two (one claim 
under her motor insurance policy and one under her home insurance policy).
In my findings I concluded Advantage should either appoint a contractor to repair the wall or - 
if Advantage or Mrs P were unable (or unwilling) to agree to the option - then average the 
lowest quote from Mrs P (£4,500) and C’s estimate (£2,998) which would be £3,749. Given 
the time since the quote and estimate were prepared, both should be updated to take 
account of current repair costs. An updated average cost should then be calculated. 
I also thought Advantage should pay Mrs P £135 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Because I reached different conclusions to our investigator, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
My role here is to decide whether Advantage has acted fairly towards Mrs P.
The key issue is how Advantage dealt with the claim for damage to the wall from the 
attempted theft of Mrs P’s vehicle. Mrs P is unhappy at the offer made by Advantage, being 
significantly less than any of the quotes she obtained from builders. She’s also unhappy at 
how long the process has taken. Advantage say their offer is fair, particularly as it wouldn’t 
normally be covered under Mrs P’s motor insurance policy (it would normally be a claim 
under a home insurance policy).
In considering the issues, I’ve borne in mind the circumstances of the complaint. Advantage 
offered to cover the cost of repairing the wall when they were not obliged to do so under the 
terms and conditions of the motor insurance policy. However, having made the offer, I think 
it’s reasonable for me to decide whether Advantage have acted fairly towards Mrs P.
In thinking about what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case, I’ve 
considered several aspects. First, while Advantage made their offer outside the terms and 
conditions of the motor insurance policy, and they aren’t assessing the claim under a home 
insurance policy, I think it’s reasonable to consider what happened and their offer in the 
context of what would likely have happened had the damage been considered under a 
typical home insurance policy.
In those circumstances, insurers would typically assess and settle a claim in one of several 
ways. First, they could appoint their own contractors to repair the damage. Second, they 
could ask the policyholder to obtain their own estimates for the cost of repair (which is what 
happened in this case). Those estimates would be reviewed by the insurer (or their 
contractor) to assess whether they covered an appropriate scope of work and were 
reasonable. Third, they could offer a cash settlement to the policyholder for them to engage 
contractors to carry out the work, based on the insurer’s scope of work and the estimated 
cost (to the insurer) were they to appoint their own contractors to carry out the work. It is for 
the insurer to decide which of the options would be used to settle the claim.
In this case, the second and third options are, respectively what Mrs P has provided, and 
Advantage have offered. As they disagree on the respective figures for the two options, I’ve 
thought about what a reasonable outcome would be.
C’s offer is based on the lowest estimate (and its breakdown) provided by Mrs P. So, it’s 
based on the same scope of work to repair the wall. Where it differs is the cost of each 
element, with the biggest differences being in the unit labour cost and the cost of the bricks 
to rebuild the wall. In both cases, C say they would expect to pay significantly less. Given 
their ability to secure better rates than Mrs P would be able to as an individual, I think it’s a 
reasonable option for Advantage to appoint a contractor to carry out the work to repair the 
wall, to take advantage of their ability to secure better rates.
If Advantage (or Mrs P) are unable (or unwilling) to agree to the option, then I think a 
reasonable alternative would be to take the average of the quotes provided, but with one 
difference. Averaging the four quotes would give a figure of £4,299.50. However, that means 
the three quotes from Mrs P have a greater weighting than that of C. And were the choice 
simply between the three quotes from Mrs P, I think it’s likely both Advantage and Mrs P 
would choose the lowest quote. And given the two higher ones don’t include a detailed 
breakdown, then I don’t think it’s reasonable to include them in the calculation of an average. 
So, averaging the lowest quote and that of C, gives a figure of £3,749. 
Given the elapse of time since the quote (April 2022) and C’s estimate (August 2022) and 
the level of inflation (both in general and in the building sector) I think it would be reasonable 
for both to be updated to take account of current repair costs. An updated average cost 
should then be calculated.
I recognise this is less than the lowest quote from Mrs P. But I’ve also considered the points 
made by Advantage in their response to our investigator’s view. They say Mrs P is benefiting 
from their offer to cover the cost of repairing the wall. And she would also be in ‘betterment’ 
from their offer, as she would only be making one claim for the incident rather than two.
Taking these points in turn, it is likely Mrs P would benefit from Advantage covering the cost 
of repairing the wall. That’s because not claiming under her home insurance policy means 
she doesn’t - assuming the claim was accepted - pay any excess that might have been due 
under the policy (though I’ve not seen any home insurance policy Mrs P has on her property, 
so I can’t say what the excess may have been). Making a claim would also mean it likely the 
premium payable under the policy would increase – although it’s again uncertain what the 
size of any such increase might be. It might also be the case that assessing the claim under 
a home insurance policy would be likely to lead to a cash settlement offer like that provided 
by C – and the home insurer might simply offer it (as their choice to settle the claim).
On the ‘betterment’ issue, this is a concept whereby a policyholder shouldn’t be put in a 
better position from a claim than they were in before the incident that led to the claim. In the 
circumstances of the case, I don’t think this is relevant. I say that because repairing the wall 
would simply put Mrs P in the position she was before the incident and the damage. There’s 
no indication from what I’ve seen the repair would cover anything other than the damage to 
the wall (not any undamaged part of it) nor that it would be repaired to a higher standard 
than it was in before the incident. While Mrs P benefits from not making a claim under her 
home insurance policy, as I’ve set out above, I don’t think this constitutes ‘betterment’ as the 
concept is generally understood. And Advantage would have been aware of the benefit 
when deciding to offer to cover the cost of repairing the wall.
Having reached these conclusions, I’ve also thought about the issue of the time taken to 
assess this aspect of the claim and the communication issues Mrs P has described. Looking 
at the sequence of events, I think the process has taken longer than it should have done and 
that some of the delays are due to Advantage. Taking all the circumstances into account, I 
think £135 for distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mrs P’s complaint. I 
intend to require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:  
Either to appoint a contractor to carry out the work to repair the wall or - if 
Advantage or Mrs P are unable (or unwilling) to agree to the option - then take the 
average of the lowest quote from Mrs P (£4,500) and C’s estimate (£2,998) which 
would be £3,749. 
Given the elapse of time since the quote and estimate were prepared, both should 
be updated to take account of current repair costs. An updated average cost 
should then be calculated.
Pay Mrs P £135 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell them Mrs P accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Mrs P responded to make several points. She said she’d been asked to provide three quotes 
by Advantage, which she did. But not hearing further from Advantage, she chased them and 
was asked to submit her chosen contractor’s quote, which they would arrange payment. This 
was £4,500. After a further wait, she was told C would deal with the matter. They asked her 
to provide a detailed job quote, which she did. She wasn’t asked for more details of the other 
two quotes. C visited her property in September 2022 but didn’t spend long, take 
measurements or other detail. And C then offered their cash settlement, which Mrs P didn’t 
consider they’d justified. And the only detailed quote was the £4,500 she’d provided.
Mrs P also said she wasn’t prepared to accept the option of Advantage repairing the wall 
(through a contractor they’d appoint) as they’d declined to offer this option on several 
occasions. Mrs P also said quotes for her motor insurance policy had increased significantly 
since the incident (as the claim hadn’t been fully settled). This was also affecting her ability 
to obtain insurance for her husband’s vehicle.
Advantage didn’t respond by the date requested for responses.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Advantage have acted fairly towards Mrs P.
I’ve considered carefully the points made by Mrs P in her response to my provisional 
decision. On her first point, Advantage asking her to provide the quote for which they would 
arrange payment, I can understand why Mrs P feels unhappy that Advantage then appointed 
C to visit the property and assess the damage. But that’s not untypical of the approach 
insurers take in assessing claims for damage. As I set out in my provisional decision, 
insurers can ask the policyholder to obtain their own estimates for the cost of repair and they 
(or their contractor) assess whether they covered an appropriate scope of work and were 
reasonable. And they are also able to offer a cash settlement, based on the insurer’s scope 
of work and the estimated cost (to the insurer) were they to appoint their own contractors to 
carry out the work. It is for the insurer to decide which option to settle the claim.
On Mrs P’s second point, that Advantage (or C) hadn’t justified their cash settlement offer, I 
said in my provisional decision C’s offer was based on the lowest estimate (and its 
breakdown) provided by Mrs P. So, it was based on the same scope of work to repair the 
wall. The difference is the cost of each element, with the biggest differences being in the unit 
labour cost and the cost of the bricks to rebuild the wall. In both cases, C say they would 
expect to pay significantly less. Given their ability to secure better rates than Mrs P as an 
individual, I still think it’s a reasonable basis for the cash settlement figure they offered, 
Mrs P has said she’s not prepared to accept the option of Advantage repairing the wall, 
notwithstanding Advantage declining to offer this option. That being the case, then this 
option drops away, leaving the cash settlement route. And I haven’t seen anything to 
indicate the averaging of the lowest quote from Mrs P and C’s estimate is unreasonable. So, 
I’ve concluded that’s a fair and reasonable way to settle the claim.
On Mrs P’s points about the quotes she’d obtained for motor insurance being significantly 
higher, as well as her ability to obtain insurance for her husband’s car, these aren’t issues for 
me to consider as part of this complaint, which is to consider whether Advantage have acted 
fairly towards Mrs P in the specific circumstances of this case. But it is likely that any claim 
made under her motor insurance policy (for the damage to her vehicle) would affect future 
premiums (and quotes for motor insurance) irrespective of how the claim was settled. Having 
a claim not fully settled would similarly be likely to affect future premiums and quotes.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs P’s complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:  
Make a cash settlement to Mrs P, taking the average of the lowest quote from Mrs 
P (£4,500) and C’s estimate (£2,998) which would be £3,749. 
Given the elapse of time since the quote and estimate were prepared, both should 
be updated to take account of current repair costs. An updated average cost 
should then be calculated and used as the basis of the cash settlement.
Pay Mrs P £135 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell them Mrs P accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman