DRN-5225260 
 
 
The complaint 
 
R, a limited company, complains that Castle Trust Capital PLC hasn’t acted fairly in relation 
to a commercial mortgage. 
What happened 
In 2020 R purchased a property for holiday lets. Castle Trust Capital PLC (CTCP) agreed to 
lend £225,000 over a 36 month period on interest only terms with an interest rate of 5.29%.  
 
In 2023 in the lead up to the term coming to an end, CTCP asked R for updates on the plans 
to repay the mortgage at the end of the term. Some communications from this point forwards 
were direct with R and some with R’s broker – I will refer solely to R for simplicity.  
 
R told CTCP it was applying for borrowing through another lender. It then said it had applied 
to a different lender that was offering better terms. In November 2023, CTCP told R that if 
the loan wasn’t repaid by expiry, it would be open to providing a short hold on the account, 
but the interest rate would increase to 10.29% from the date of expiry until the loan was 
repaid.  
 
In December 2023, after the original loan had expired, it became apparent that R couldn’t 
borrow enough from the lender it had applied to, to be able to repay the CTCP loan. R asked 
CTCP about any options it had available. CTCP told R it was planning to bring out a new 
product that would seem to suit R’s requirements and that it expected the new product to be 
available at some point in January 2024.  
 
The new product didn’t become available in January 2024 and at the beginning of 
February 2024, CTCP told R it would be willing to provide a six month extension without an 
Early Repayment Charge applying, to allow time for R to make the application for the 
product that was still expected to become available. CTCP told R that it would continue to 
charge 10.29% until the original loan was repaid and that there would be a one-off charge of 
1% of the loan balance. 
 
R complained that the terms being offered weren’t fair. R said it was waiting for the new 
product to become available and it wasn’t fair for CTCP to insist on such a high fee and high 
interest rate. 
 
CTCP upheld the complaint. It offered a three month extension on the same interest rate 
terms as the original loan (5.29%) to give time for the re-finance application to go through 
and charged a lower one-off fee of 0.25% of the outstanding balance.  
R then applied to re-finance the original loan for a period of one year, at an interest rate of 
6.24%. The application was declined after the valuation report highlighted an issue with the 
construction type of the property.  
 
R complained. In summary, it said the issue was down to an error in the original valuation 
and in the circumstances it wasn’t fair for CTCP to have declined to agree the re-financing 
being sought. R asked CTCP to continue to charge the existing rate of interest until 

 
 
alternative financing could be arranged elsewhere. It also asked for a refund of fees and 
compensation.  
 
CTCP was sympathetic to the position R found itself it, but didn’t uphold the complaint. In 
summary, it said it had been reliant on the original valuation when it had agreed to lend in 
the first place. It said the original valuation report contained wording encouraging the 
prospective borrower to conduct separate checks in respect of the property condition and 
value. CTCP said it couldn’t agree the new lending application because the property 
construction fell outside of its lending criteria.  
 
R referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. It said it had put the property 
on the market for sale, but that it may not be possible to repay the CTCP loan before the 
expiry of the three-month extension and that it felt harassed. R also questioned why it had 
been necessary for a new valuation to be carried out for a product switch. 
 
Contact notes indicate that at the end of the three-month extension, CTCP agreed to extend 
the loan to the end of 2024 at its Buy-to-Let rate, which was just over 6.39% at the point it 
agreed this. It said this was contingent on R reducing the sale price of the property and that 
the loan rate would increase to 10.29% if not repaid by 31 December 2024.  
 
An Investigator here issued an assessment of the case. In summary, they said CTCP hadn’t 
acted unfairly in declining the new application following the latest valuation report. They said 
CTCP’s actions since had been reasonable, including offering extensions and concessionary 
interest rates outside of its normal policy. R disagreed. It said it didn’t think CTCP had acted 
fairly and asked for the case to be escalated to an Ombudsman.  
 
The case has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Have done so, I’ve reached the same overall outcome as the Investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Before I explain why, I want to set out the purpose of my role. It isn’t to 
address every single point that’s been made. Instead, it’s to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
For that reason, I’m only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set 
out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. But, having considered all of the 
submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have 
been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint. 
 
CTCP’s decision to decline the new application  
 
R is unhappy that CTCP declined the new application in 2024. It says this isn’t fair in the 
context of CTCP originally agreeing to lend based on a valuation report it had arranged. It 
also questions why there needed to be a new application and couldn’t have been done as a 
product switch instead.  
 
CTCP says it appreciates R’s position, but that it was entitled to decline the application after 
finding out the property falls outside of its lending criteria. 
 
 
 
In a situation where the initial fixed interest rate on a loan runs for less time than the overall 
mortgage term, it is usually possible to arrange a product transfer with the same lender, 
rather than need to re-mortgage. 
 
However, in this case the lending agreed in 2020 was to run for a period of 36 months at a 
fixed rate of interest. So after the 36 months had elapsed, the original loan had finished. As 
such, if R wanted to continue to borrow from CTCP, this would need to be done via a new 
application. It was more than a simple product switch as the original loan had effectively 
ceased to exist. 
 
CTCP declined the application because it became apparent from the new valuation report 
that the construction of the property fell outside of its lending criteria. CTCP has provided its 
lending criteria and I can see that the property didn’t meet these criteria. CTCP didn’t know 
that the property construction fell outside of its criteria after the initial application. When it 
found this out following the second application and valuation, it was entitled to take this into 
account.  
 
On this basis, I can’t say that CTCP’s decision to decline the 2024 application was unfair. 
 
The significance of the 2020 valuation 
 
I can completely understand R’s frustration at the later valuation report picking up on 
something significant that the original valuation report didn’t. 
 
Both valuations, including the original one upon which CTCP agreed to lend, were 
completed in order for CTCP to decide whether the property being purchased represented 
adequate security upon which it was prepared to lend. CTCP was entitled to rely on both 
reports, since they were carried out by a suitably qualified (RICS) surveyor. The valuation 
wasn’t being carried out for the benefit of R.  
 
As such, I cannot hold CTCP responsible for any issues R has experienced that stem from 
the original valuation report. 
 
CTCP’s actions in the lead up to the original loan term expiring and since 
 
Under the terms of the original loan, when it reached the end of the term, CTCP was entitled 
to expect full repayment of the loan. I can see that CTCP contacted R on a number of 
occasions in the lead up to the loan expiry to remind R this was approaching and to check its 
plans for repaying the loan. There was never an obligation for CTCP to extend, renew or 
offer a new loan. 
 
I can also see that R had explored re-financing with a couple of different lenders, but that 
this didn’t happen. 
 
After the original loan term expired, CTCP has been in regular communication with R to 
understand its position and intentions. It has agreed a number of extensions as opposed to 
initiating repossession action and agreed concessionary interest rates - that is to say it has 
charged a lower rate of interest than it would ordinarily do in circumstances where a loan 
term has expired and the balance remains outstanding.  
 
I’ve thought very carefully about the points R has made as to why it considers CTCP has 
applied undue pressure in the way it has engaged and the decisions it’s taken in pursuing 
repayment of the loan balance. However, whilst I can appreciate that R finds itself in a 
difficult position, and its perspective on what’s happened, I don’t find that CTCP has acted 
 
 
unfairly. Ultimately, the loan had reached its end, and CTCP was entitled to take steps to 
have it repaid in one form or another. 
 
CTCP should still treat R fairly moving forwards. If in future R considers this isn’t the case, it 
would need to raise such concerns with CTCP in the first instance.  
 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I don’t uphold R’s complaint about Castle Trust Capital PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2025. 
   
Ben Brewer 
Ombudsman