DRN-4566412
The complaint
Mr C complains that GSI Wealth Management Limited (‘GSI’) gave him unsuitable pension 
transfer advice in 2009. After which he chose to transfer deferred benefits in a defined 
benefit (DB) pension scheme to a personal pension. He says he has lost his guaranteed 
benefits and will have lower benefits in retirement.
What happened
Mr C had deferred benefits in a DB scheme and in late 2009, when he was 51, he received 
pension advice from GSI regarding the suitability of transferring his pension in order to 
access tax free cash early.
GSI produced two suitability reports for Mr C. 
The first, dated 15 December 2009, advised Mr C on the suitability of transferring his DB 
scheme pension to a personal pension. That report explained that it was providing a 
recommendation on whether or not to transfer this pension. And explained that the advice 
was limited to this area of financial planning. It recommended that Mr C did not transfer his 
DB scheme. And set out its reason for making that recommendation. In summary the basis 
of this recommendation was that the DB scheme offered guaranteed benefits and that Mr C 
was likely to be financially worse off by transferring, based on the transfer analysis it carried 
out.
The second report, dated 16 December 2009, was entitled “Report and recommendations on 
pension arrangements”. This report started by referencing the first report and again 
highlighting that its overall recommendation was against transferring. But referred to Mr C’s 
wish to transfer in order to access an immediate cash lump sum. And said that Mr C had 
asked that it advise on the most appropriate course of action in order to do that. And this 
report then went on to provide a recommendation on a suitable way to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension that would enable him to do what he wished, in a way that 
considered his attitude to risk. 
This report included a declaration at the end. It required Mr C to confirm that he understood 
the recommendations and risk warnings in the report. And the declaration, “I understand that 
by transferring there is no guarantee that I will end up with higher benefits than those that 
would have been provided by the Scheme and it is possible that the benefits I receive will be 
lower”. Mr C signed and dated this declaration on 18 December 2009.
Mr C’s DB scheme pension transferred to GSI’s recommended personal pension in February 
2010. The cash equivalent transfer value was £75,353 and Mr C took the maximum tax-free 
cash lump sum of £18,838. Mr C then proceeded to take a drawdown income from this 
personal pension each year until 2015. In 2015, his remaining pension fund was around 
£54,000 and he took the remaining pension fund as a taxable lump sum benefit.
Mr C complained, via professional representation, in July 2022. Mr C’s complaint was that 
GSI’s advice to transfer his DB scheme pension was unsuitable and that he wasn’t informed 

of the benefits that he’d be giving up and was advised that he would be able to access tax-
free cash early.
GSI didn’t uphold Mr C’s complaint. It explained that it had advised Mr C not to transfer his 
DB scheme benefits. But that Mr C was an insistent client and had gone against its 
recommendation about his DB scheme.
Mr C’s complaint was referred to our service. This referral reiterated that GSI failed to ensure 
that Mr C received and understood the risks involved with transferring his DB scheme 
pension. It suggested he was vulnerable at the time as he had debts and he believed 
transferring was the only way he could repay those debts. The referral also explained that 
providing the declaration at the same time as the suitability report indicated that transferring 
was a predetermined outcome.
Following referral to our service GSI questioned whether or not Mr C had made his 
complaint in time for us to be able to look into it. So our investigator explained why he 
thought Mr C had made his complaint in time. And also went on to give his opinion on the 
merits of the case.
GSI disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide whether the 
case is in our jurisdiction. And, if so, to give a decision on the merits of the case taking into 
consideration the representations it made.
I issued a provisional decision to let both parties know why I agreed with our investigator 
about why Mr C’s case was in our jurisdiction. I gave my rationale to explain why I decided 
Mr C had made his complaint within three years of becoming aware of an issue. Which 
meant that the three-year rule in DISP 2.8.2R gave our service jurisdiction to consider Mr C’s 
complaint.
In my provisional decision I also explained why I didn’t think Mr C’s complaint should be 
upheld. I summarise my reasons as follows:
I explained that I didn’t think that GSI advised Mr C to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension. I thought its overall recommendation was that he would have more 
valuable retirement benefits by retaining the existing DB scheme.
I also thought that GSI’s recommendation clearly explained the existing benefits that 
Mr C had in his DB scheme so it was likely that Mr C understood what he was giving 
up by transferring.
I considered whether GSI had given Mr C enough information to enable him to make 
an informed decision. And was minded to say that it hadn’t. I thought that GSI ought 
to have paid more attention to Mr C’s overall circumstances giving particular attention 
to the reasons that he had for wanting to transfer. This conclusion meant that I was of 
the opinion that GSI didn’t treat Mr C fairly as an insistent client.
I then considered what I thought was the failing in the advice GSI provided Mr C. And 
whether GSI providing more comprehensive advice in that regard would, more likely 
than not, have convinced Mr C to follow its recommendation not to transfer. And I 
was of the opinion that Mr C would, more likely than not, have still transferred his 
pension. I explained why I didn’t think that an explanation from GSI about why 
transferring wasn’t necessary to clear his existing debt, would have been something 
that would have changed his mind.
I’ve had responses from both parties to my provisional decision. Neither party has put 
forward any comments or additional evidence regarding my provisional jurisdiction decision. 
GSI had no further comments to make regarding the finding I’d provisionally reached on the 
merits of the case. Mr C’s representative disagreed with my provisional outcome for reasons 
that I’ll broadly summarise as:
Mr C was not experienced in investments or pensions and relied on the advice GSI 
gave him.
Mr C would not have transferred his pension if GSI’s advice had been suitable.
Mr C thought that accessing his pension was his only option regarding his existing 
debt. And GSI failed to discuss alternatives with him.
Mr C’s representative stated that it is not the role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to make unfair assumptions and speculate that Mr C might have transferred 
even if advised differently, where it is agreed that a business made a mistake.
GSI should also have highlighted the risks to Mr C of accessing his pension in large 
increments.
GSI failed to comply with the insistent client process and Mr C didn’t understand that 
he was being treated as an insistent client.
GSI were under no obligation to facilitate the transfer if they didn’t think it was in 
Mr C’s best interests which emphasises its negligence.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Why I think that Mr C’s complaint was made in time for our service to investigate
Before issuing this decision I’ve again considered whether this case is in our jurisdiction. I’ve 
had no additional evidence or comments in response to my provisional finding regarding this.  
But have reconsidered the evidence I have. I have reached the same decision that I 
provisionally gave and the following explanation repeats the reasoning both parties have 
already seen in that provisional decision.
The relevant rule for this is DISP 2.8.2R. It tells us that consumers have an absolute right to 
complain about an event within six years (the ‘six-year rule’). Or, if complaining later than 
that, we can still consider a complaint that is made within three years of the point that the 
consumer was aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that he had a cause for 
complaint (the ‘three-year rule’).
The event complained about is the advice that Mr C was given by GSI in 2009. So Mr C’s 
complaint in 2022 was more than six years after the event. So his complaint was made too 
late under the ‘six-year rule’ part of DISP 2.8.2R.
I have to also consider here whether the ‘three-year rule’ allows us to help with this 
complaint. For the purposes of this I need to be clear about what I consider Mr C’s complaint 
to be. In the original complaint made to GSI it was alleged that Mr C had received negligent 
advice and suffered a loss as a result. The complaint went on to detail specific issues where 
Mr C’s representative considered the advice had been negligent – referencing regulatory 
rules. But these issues are likely to have only been apparent to Mr C when alleged by his 
representative. 
The issue of whether or not he suffered a loss as a result of transferring is something that I 
think would have given Mr C cause to complain. So I’ve considered whether there was a 
point, more than three years before he complained, when he ought to have considered he 
may be worse off by having transferred.
I’ve looked at what I think Mr C ought to have known about the benefits he’d given up from 
his DB scheme. I have seen a copy of the transfer analysis report that GSI provided Mr C. It 
set out the benefits available in his scheme at that time. But also the likely revalued benefits 
he’d receive at age 60. And explained that the scheme didn’t provide the option of earlier 
retirement. It means that in 2009 Mr C ought to have understood that retaining his benefits 
would give him a pension in the region of £5,550 at age 60.
After transferring though, Mr C accessed his maximum tax-free cash straight away. So the 
residual pension that was re-invested was only 75% of the pension he had. And he also took 
regular drawdown from that personal pension up until 2015. It meant that he’d taken his 
benefits in a completely different way than were available from the scheme. It meant that a 
comparison of the benefits he received with what he’d have had was very difficult to make.
Nonetheless, I’ve had a look at the statements he was given to see whether they provided 
information that would have made it clear. The statements that he received from his personal 
pension provided projections of benefits in the policy up to the schemes selected retirement 
age. But that appears to have been age 75. In the 2011 statement for example, it projected a 
likely annuity of £14,400 at age 75 without adjusting for inflation. This was a lot more than 
his DB scheme had been projecting to age 60. But I think it would have been hard for Mr C 
to compare the relative values of one against the other. The subsequent statement up until 
2015 didn’t made this comparison any clearer. So I don’t think these statements ought to 
have given Mr C cause to complain.
I’ve also considered whether Mr C could have considered that taking his benefits in the way 
he did ought to have highlighted to him whether he was financially disadvantaged. But I don’t 
think it did. He took a drawdown income of £3,594 a year in 2012, 2013, and 2014. His 
pension fund after his tax-free cash and adviser fees would have been just under £51,000. 
And by his 2015 statement, having taken three years’ worth of drawdown income, his fund 
was valued at £52,210. I think it’s likely that Mr C considered his fund was able to sustain his 
level of income drawdown at that point. And GSI provided no illustration of what he might be 
able to take as drawdown income. So again I don’t think, on a balance of probability, that 
Mr C ought to have been dissatisfied with the position he was in or, the advice he’d received.
Overall, by April 2015 at age 56, Mr C had taken benefits totalling over £83,000 from his 
personal pension. If he’d used that to clear debts then he’d have additionally benefitted from 
saving interest payments on that debt. And may have benefited in other ways from this 
accessible income that he couldn’t have received from his DB scheme. So, even though he 
ought to have understood that by 2018 his DB scheme would instead have started to pay 
him around £5,550 a year, I don’t think it would have been apparent whether or not the 
benefits he took early were, overall, more or less valuable than he could instead have 
received.
He received no further information about his pension from 2015. So I haven’t identified any 
further point that he ought to have considered he’d been unsuitably advised until informed 
that may have been the case by his representative. Which I accept was within three years of 
when the complaint was made. So the ‘three-year rule’ part of DISP 2.8.2R means Mr C’s 
complaint was made within the time limits in our rules. And is a complaint that is in our 
jurisdiction.
The merits of Mr C’s complaint
I’ve taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulator’s rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (‘PRIN’) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (‘COBS’). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities – that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of GSI's actions here. 
PRIN 2.1 - Principle 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1 - Principle 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair, and not 
misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly, and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interest’s rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a defined benefit pension scheme transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a defined benefit pension should be that it is 
unsuitable. So, GSI should have only recommended a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr C’s best interests.
Of additional specific relevance in this case are the rules and industry practice regarding 
‘insistent clients’ at the time of the advice. There had previously been rules in place relating 
to insistent clients when the Personal Investment Authority (‘PIA’) was the regulator and the 
PIA Adopted Rules applied. And the Conduct of Business rules had also contained rules 
about how firms should treat insistent clients. These requirements were not replicated in the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (‘COBS’) rules which came into force in 2007. But at the 
time the advice was given, I think it was good industry practice for firms to ensure that 
customers who wanted to go ahead with a transaction against an adviser’s recommendation 
should have it clearly documented that the consumer was acting against the 
recommendation, and that they wanted to proceed in any event.
Furthermore the COBS rules in the regulator’s Handbook required GSI to ‘act honestly, fairly 
and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client’. In addition, COBS 
required GSI to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, GSI’s 
recommendation had to be clear and Mr C had to have understood the consequences of 
going against the recommendation.
Although there was no set definition of ‘insistent client’ in the regulator’s handbook at the 
time, it was generally understood to be a term used to describe a customer who wanted to 
proceed with a transaction against the advice they had been given.
Mr C’s representative originally brought this complaint on the basis that GSI recommended 
that Mr C transferred his DB Scheme to a personal pension. But, taken as a whole, I don’t 
think that is a fair or reasonable conclusion to make. GSI went to some length to draw 
attention to the fact that its overall recommendation was that Mr C shouldn’t transfer his 
benefits. It was the conclusion in the first suitability report and reiterated as the overriding 
recommendation in the second suitability report.
Mr C’s representative also alleged that GSI failed to make Mr C aware of what he was giving 
up by transferring. But I’ll explain why this isn’t fair criticism either. 
The suitability report of 15 December 2009 showed the value of Mr C’s benefits. And it 
referenced the transfer analysis that it said was included. So, on balance, I think Mr C would 
more likely than not, have had that too. And that document showed Mr C what benefits his 
DB scheme would likely provide at age 60. And I think that the recommendation given in the 
report of 15 December 2009 also made it very clear that transferring was likely to leave Mr C 
with lower benefits overall. It clearly explained that the investment returns needed to be able 
to match his DB scheme benefits could not be achieved. And GSI provided illustrations of 
what a comparable personal pension might provide. So in this regard I think GSI’s advice 
was clear and the conclusion reached about the financial impact of the transfer was 
reasonable.
I can see that GSI had regard for COBS 19.1.6 and it resorted very quickly to the 
presumption that this transfer wasn’t suitable. The financial viability test indicated that 
transferring would likely leave Mr C with benefits of a lower overall value. So this didn’t 
support a transfer as GSI rightly said. But there are other reasons that consumers might 
have for transferring. And COBS 19.1.6 recognised that GSI could consider whether the 
contemporary evidence meant that the transfer was in Mr C’s best interests.
COBS 19.1.2 required GSI to compare the benefits between the schemes with enough 
information for Mr C to be able to make an informed decision. But COBS 19.1.3 indicated 
that the comparison GSI provided should take into account all of Mr C’s relevant 
circumstances.
Whilst I think that the immediate financial comparison that GSI provided Mr C with included a 
lot of the information that it needed to I don’t think the recommendation demonstrated much 
consideration of Mr C’s relevant circumstances. For instance, GSI knew that Mr C had debts 
of £20,000 and that his motivation to transfer was to enable him to access a cash lump sum 
to address that. This was obviously a relevant consideration. And advising on the transfer 
without ascertaining a better understanding of this issue or how it affected the suitability of a 
transfer wasn’t reasonable. And was a shortcoming in the advice. 
GSI was aware that Mr C thought that the transfer was in his best interests. And GSI knew 
why he thought that was the case. So, to treat him fairly, and comply with COBS 19.1.2, it 
should have commented on his reason for wanting to transfer. It should have established if 
there was another viable way of Mr C clearing his debt. And whether that was more in his 
interests than taking benefits from his pension scheme in a way that devalued his income in 
retirement. And I’ve seen no evidence that it did that. 
Having identified a shortcoming in the information that GSI provided Mr C in its 
recommendation I have to consider the consequences of that failing. I can see that Mr C’s 
representative appears to disagree that I should be making this determination. But I don’t 
agree with its argument. This is the issue of causation, which is whether GSI’s act or 
omission caused subsequent loss or harm. And it is a crucial element of my role in 
determining, not simply if a business has done something wrong, but what the 
consequences of that mistake, most likely, were. Put simply, I’ve decided that GSI’s 
recommendation lacked specific information or advice about Mr C’s objective of accessing 
tax-free cash. But, as it never gave advice on that, I can’t know what would have happened if 
it did. So I have to make a determination of what I think the most likely consequence would 
have been. And I have to do that by weighing the evidence and making a decision, on a 
balance of probability.
In order to consider what difference it would most likely have made I’ve considered what 
additional information GSI ought to have provided and commented on in its recommendation 
if it had complied with COBS rules better. 
The fact-find that GSI completed was done by sending Mr C a basic questionnaire. And in it 
he volunteered the amount of his debt. So I think it’s more likely than not that, if GSI asked 
further about his debt, he would have provided the information. He wasn’t asked about his 
expenditure or whether that debt was already affordable. If GSI had done more to 
understand his debt then I think it would have established that Mr C had a debt management 
plan in place. So I think it would still have reached the conclusion that transferring in order to 
clear debt wasn’t in Mr C’s best interests either. 
This also means that GSI ought to have commented on this in a way that made it clear to 
Mr C that his debt was manageable with the debt recovery plan he already had. But I don’t 
think GSI ought then to have reviewed or commented on other options further. Had there 
been any, I think it’s unlikely the debt management plan would be in place. It would likely 
have been enough for GSI to point out that clearing the debt wasn’t a necessity that 
warranted the transfer. 
Having considered what GSI may instead have told Mr C I have to consider how likely it is 
that the additional commentary would have made a difference. I think that being told that his 
debt management plan already made his debt affordable would have been information that 
Mr C most likely knew. Even if his preference was to clear that debt sooner, he’d have 
known that he had a perfectly good option already for dealing with that debt. It is for this 
reason that I am not persuaded that the omission in GSI’s recommendation was likely to 
have been of enough impact to Mr C to change his mind.
It was Mr C who contacted GSI with a view to releasing money from his pension having 
already obtained a cash equivalent transfer from his scheme. Even though he understood 
that he had a debt management plan in place he wanted to transfer anyway. The key 
information that he didn’t know until he received advice was the extent to which he may be 
worse of in retirement by transferring. And that was information that I think GSI were clear 
about. And didn’t dissuade Mr C from transferring.
I also explained in my provisional decision that I think the timing is relevant here. Again, I 
can’t know what considerations were most important to Mr C in 2009. But I think that it’s 
likely that Mr C was aware that the minimum pension age was changing from 50 to 55 in 
April 2010. And it was referenced in the suitability report. It meant that Mr C had a small 
window of opportunity to access this cash this early. And I think this was likely to be a big 
motivator. I should also make it clear that I do not think that anything in the recommendation 
could be construed as using this fact as a lever to encourage Mr C to transfer. But I think 
that this would have existed as a motivator to transfer at that time that was outside of the 
scope of any omission in GSI’s advice.
Mr C’s representative had argued that GSI should have done more to inform Mr C of the 
risks in taking his pension in lump sums in the way he did. But, as I explained in my 
provisional decision GSI would not have known exactly what Mr C might do with his pension 
after transferring. He had indicated that he had no need of income from it. And that clearing 
his debt with the tax-free cash would mean he could afford to join his new pension scheme. 
None the less, GSI provided him with information about the advantages and disadvantages 
of taking income drawdown in its recommendation. But didn’t include the risks involved in 
taking large increments. Which wasn’t an option until Pension Freedoms in 2015 so couldn’t 
have been commented on by GSI. The only option available was through capped drawdown 
which was explained to Mr C. So I don’t agree that GSI should have been clearer about a 
drawdown income plan that was never a recognised objective that Mr C gave. Therefore I 
find no omission here that would have a bearing on the outcome of this complaint.
Insistent client
I can see that GSI obtained a written declaration from Mr C documenting his 
acknowledgement and understanding of the recommendation not to transfer. Which on the 
face of it was what was required at the time for insistent clients. But I’ve explained why I 
think the recommendation that GSI provided was lacking in detail on the very issue that Mr C 
was considering transferring. And the failure to provide Mr C with the information that he 
needed to be able to make his decision didn’t comply with the rules I’ve referred to. And 
didn’t comply with principle 6 or principle 7. 
I acknowledge Mr C’s representative’s comment regarding GSI’s decision to proceed with 
the transfer on an insistent basis. But nothing in the regulatory framework or industry 
practice at the time prevented a firm from assisting a client with a transfer against its 
recommendation. So this argument doesn’t change my mind on what GSI did wrong and 
whether it caused Mr C to transfer.
Summary
I need to also acknowledge that the decision to transfer was Mr C’s to make. Even though 
taking benefits early would likely mean lower benefits later. The benefits in the scheme were, 
in many ways, more valuable in the original format than could be obtained by transferring. 
But I think that this fact was something that GSI’s recommendation made in a clear way. It 
provided much of the information that was necessary for a recommendation of this type. So 
I’ve decided that it was, more likely than not, clear to Mr C that the transfer was likely to 
leave him with lower overall benefits later in retirement. And this information wasn’t enough 
to dissuade Mr C from his preferred course of action of transferring his pension. Even though 
he already knew that his existing debt was affordable without doing so. 
Mr C was of an age where pension rules allowed him to access his benefits. And even 
though I’ve identified a short coming in GSI’s recommendation I have to consider whether 
that specific failing was likely to have been something that would have made a difference. 
And for the reasons I’ve given, I don’t think in this case that it was.
My final decision
For the above reasons I am not upholding Mr C’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2024.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman