DRN-4507003
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a personal loan Vanquis Bank Limited (“Vanquis”) provided to 
him. He says the loan was unaffordable and was therefore irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Vanquis provided Mr M with a loan for £1,500.00 in March 2023. This loan had an APR of 
29.5% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £1,931.61, 
including interest, fees and charges of £431.61, was due to be repaid in 23 monthly 
instalments of £80.49 and 1 final monthly instalment of £80.34. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr M’s complaint and that thought that it didn’t do 
anything wrong when providing Mr M with his loan. So he didn’t recommend that Mr M’s 
complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed with our investigator’s assessment. So the case was 
passed to an ombudsman as per the next step of our dispute resolution process. 
My provisional decision of 22 November 2023
I issued a provisional decision – on 22 November 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold 
Mr M’s complaint. I won’t copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that we’ve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I’d used this approach to help me decide 
Mr M’s complaint. 
What this in effect meant was that Vanquis needed to make sure it didn’t lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, what this meant was Vanquis needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Mr M could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lender’s checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think it’s reasonable for a lender’s checks to be less 
thorough – in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it – in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower’s income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So we’d expect
a lender to be able to show that it didn’t continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Vanquis said it agreed to Mr M’s application after he provided details of his monthly income 
and it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out. In its view, this 
information showed Mr M could afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the 
other hand, Mr M said that he shouldn’t have been lent to.
I could understand why the low monthly payments might have led Vanquis to argue that a 
lighter touch assessment of affordability might have been proportionate here. This was 

particularly as it said that it didn’t see anything concerning on the credit check that it carried 
out on Mr M. That said, I was mindful that this wasn’t Mr M’s first loan with Vanquis. 
Indeed, not only was this not Mr M’s first loan with Vanquis, but Vanquis had written off the 
outstanding balance on the previous loan, in circumstances where it hadn’t received even 
20% of the amount it lent let alone any interest, because it accepted that Mr M shouldn’t 
have been advanced those funds. Furthermore, although the decision to write off Mr M’s 
previous loan with Vanquis was taken in November 2022 it was still corresponding with Mr M 
about this matter in February 2023, which was a mere matter of weeks prior to Mr M 
applying for this particular loan.  
Given the proximity of these events and notwithstanding that Vanquis could well have 
argued that Mr M was brazen in applying for another loan with it so quickly, I could not 
reasonably argue that Vanquis did not need to take this into account (at the very least it 
would have seen a balance was written off even if it might not have seen that this was 
because of a successful irresponsible lending complaint), when deciding whether to provide 
Mr M with further funds.
I thought that there was an argument for saying that Vanquis ought to have declined Mr M’s 
application outright. In any event, I thought that at the very least it probably needed to take a 
closer look into why Mr M’s previous loan was written off. And if Vanquis had done this it 
would have seen the reason for Mr M’s previous indebtedness and apparent inability to 
manage his money. 
Given what I thought that Vanquis was likely to have seen if it had looked into why it wrote 
off Mr M’s previous loan, it was apparent to me that it would have realised that Mr M was 
unlikely to have been able to repay this loan without borrowing further or experiencing 
financial difficulty. I was therefore satisfied that Mr M’s actions in this matter were not a 
reason for me not to uphold his complaint. Nonetheless, I did think that these were matters 
for me to take into account when deciding on my direction to Vanquis on how it should put 
things right. 
As this was the case, and while acknowledging all of the facts, I did think that Mr M’s existing 
financial position meant that he was unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, 
without undue difficulty or borrowing further. And I was satisfied that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more like than not have shown Vanquis that it shouldn’t have 
provided this loan to Mr M. 
As Vanquis provided Mr M with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that 
it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. And it is was my intention to uphold this 
complaint. I then went on set out a proposed method of putting things right which I thought 
addressed Vanquis’ shortcomings as well as the unique circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M confirmed that he accepted my provisional decision and didn’t provide anything further 
to me to consider.
Vanquis also confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and said that it didn’t have 
any further points for me to consider. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses and I’m pleased to see that they have accepted my 
conclusions.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr M’s complaint in my provisional decision 
of 22 November 2023. As neither party has challenged these conclusions and haven’t 
provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to alter my conclusions. 
So overall and having considered everything, I’m still upholding Mr M’s complaint and I 
require Vanquis to put things right in the way that I set out below. 
My thoughts on fair compensation
At this stage I wish to make it clear that this complaint involves a truly exceptional set of 
circumstances. I’ve been required to decide irresponsible and unaffordable lending 
complaints for a number of years. And even I haven’t had to decide a case where a 
customer has complained after having fully repaid a loan, in circumstances where that loan 
was provided shortly after a firm not only waived interest but wrote off over 80% of the 
capital lent, because it accepted it shouldn’t have lent to the customer. 
Given the uniqueness of the situation here, I’m not persuaded that merely following our 
usual approach produces a fair and reasonable outcome. And I’ve given a lot of careful 
thought to what fair compensation should look like in this case.
As we explain on our website where we find, or a lender agrees, credit was provided 
irresponsibly, we typically say it’s fair reasonable to expect the borrower to repay the funds 
they were lent but not any associated interest, fees or charges. So as a starting point I’m 
satisfied that Vanquis should refund Mr M any extra he paid over and above the £1,500.00 
he was lent.
I’m also mindful that we typically award a customer interest for being deprived of the funds 
that they overpaid – in this case, any extra over and above the £1,500.00 Mr M was lent. So 
in this case this would mean Vanquis paying Mr M interest at 8% per year simple from the 
date Mr M paid more than £1,500.00 to the date that Vanquis settles this decision. This 
typically accounts for the fact that the customer has not had the use of the funds and it is 
unclear what the customer would have done with the funds had they not been deprived of 
money.
However, in this case, I’m mindful of the reason Mr M’s complaint has been upheld and in 
particular what Vanquis is likely to have seen if it had followed through in checking its 
reasons for writing off Mr M’s previous loan. In my view, it’s a safe assumption that Mr M is 
unlikely to have seen a return on the funds in question. There is even an argument to be 
made that the funds could have dissipated by now had they not been paid to Vanquis and 
instead remained with Mr M at this time. 
In these circumstances, while I’m satisfied that Vanquis should not keep Mr M’s 
overpayment, I’m nonetheless also satisfied that there is a strong, fair and reasonable 
argument for saying that he would not still be in possession of those funds now. As this is 
the case, I don’t think that Mr M should be compensated by payment of further interest and 
I’m satisfied that a refund of the overpayment is sufficient compensation here.  
I turn now to Mr M’s credit file. We’d typically expect a lender to remove any adverse 
information on a loan, from the borrower’s credit file, where a complaint is upheld for 
irresponsible lending. However, I don’t think that doing this would be the fair and reasonable 
thing to do here given the circumstances of Mr M’s loan application here. 
To explain, Mr M was not deterred from applying to Vanquis for a loan despite having 
recently told it he couldn’t repay what he owed. He says that it is perplexing that the previous 
loan’s history wasn’t taken into account, although, as I’ve explained Vanquis could quite 
reasonably argue that Mr M’s decision making was at least equally as perplexing here. This 
and the reasons why the balance on Mr M’s previous Vanquis loan was written off, has 
played a large part in my intended decision to uphold Mr M’s complaint. 
In these circumstances, where Mr M applied for a further loan a mere matter of weeks after 
what had previously happened clearly didn’t have the effect of deterring him from going back 
to Vanquis for more funds, it seems to me removing adverse information from Mr M’s credit 
file, thus increasing the chances of him being able to borrow further would be 
counterproductive. In my view, making such a direction here would arguably not be in Mr M’s 
best interests, or those of any potential lender. 
So, in these circumstances, I’m satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable for Vanquis to 
leave any adverse information it might have recorded about this loan on Mr M’s credit file. 
Fair compensation - what Vanquis needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Given the above, I’m directing Vanquis to put things right for Mr M by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr M paid on this loan†.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Vanquis to take off tax from this interest. Vanquis must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained and in my provisional decision of 22 November 2023, I’m 
upholding Mr M’s complaint. Vanquis Bank Limited should put things right in the way I’ve 
directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman