DRN-4982871 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs. B complains that Secure Trust Bank PLC (STB) applied funds sent to it in error to her 
ISA before returning them and then refused to refer the matter to HMRC in respect of the tax 
implications. 
 
What happened 
In September 2023 Mrs B successfully applied for a Cash ISA with STB. It received and 
processed two sums, of around £60,000 and £19,000, from her previous provider. The latter 
sum was sent by the previous provider in error, and it attempted to recall it from STB. 
However STB’s system sent a message to that provider saying that no account had been 
found. This was because its system was not set up to provide an automatic recall. This had 
to be carried out manually and STB advised that the £19,000 would have to be applied to 
Mrs B’s ISA first before it could be sent back. STB arranged to do this and credited Mrs B’s 
ISA with both £19,000 and £60,000 on 25 September and returned the former sum to the 
previous provider the next day. 
Mrs B was concerned about how this had affected her tax status and enquired why the 
£19,000 had to be applied to her ISA before returning it. STB initially said that it had to be 
done in that way. When Mrs B complained, it said that although the receipt of the £19,000 
was not an error on its part, it could understand that she would have been distressed. It also 
said that there would have been an alternative method of returning the funds without 
applying them to the ISA first. But it was able to assure Mrs B that its Finance Team had 
provided substantial reassurance that its annual Bank and Building Society interest report 
would be correct and that no adverse effects would occur regarding her ISA position. It 
declined to report the matter to HMRC. However due to the issues Mrs B had encountered it 
offered £150 compensation. 
Mrs B later referred the matter to HMRC herself. It did respond that it would appear there 
was no tax liability on the amounts, as this had been dealt with “ISA Manager” the monies 
had not left the ISA Wrapper. 
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that Mrs B had 
received adequate written confirmation and comfort from STB that explained the 
circumstances of her situation and the mistakes it’d made. And that STB would be reporting 
the incident accurately to HMRC as part of the annual audit. He thought that the offer of 
£150 was reasonable. 
On Mrs B's behalf Mr B replied and said that because the matter had affected Mrs B for 
several months before they got a response from HMRC she was concerned about a 
potential ongoing tax liability. And that the compensation should reflect that. He also 
believed that we should not look at the matter with hindsight, rather that we should consider 
what could have happened. 
The matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsman's consideration. 

 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I should explain to Mr and Mrs B that I have to consider the position as it is rather than what 
it could have been and will take that into account in considering the appropriate 
compensation. 
I can understand that Mrs B would have been disturbed to find that £19,000 was sent to her 
ISA before being returned to her previous provider, and that this could have had a tax liability 
for her. Although I do think that the tax liability, if there was one, would only have affected 
her in the financial year 2023 to 2024. And, as it transpires STB could have returned the 
£19,000 without it having to go through her ISA. 
However whilst I understand that Mrs B wanted to get reassurance directly from HMRC, 
I think it was reasonable, as a bank that would have dealt with tax matters all the time, for 
STB to provide the reassurance, from its Finance Team, that it didn't affect her tax position. 
And the response from HMRC did confirm that. In my view it is pointless to speculate about 
the reasons for HMRC's response. The fact is that STB advised Mrs B that it was able to 
provide substantial reassurance that her tax position was unaffected. 
Having said that, as I’ve said, I can understand Mrs B's concern about her tax position, and 
that concern was brought about by STB placing the funds received in error into her ISA even 
if only for one day. I think in the circumstances the £150 offered by STB is fair and 
reasonable. It was Mrs B’s choice to refer the matter to HMRC but ultimately its response 
was a justification of STB's earlier response. 
My final decision 
Secure Trust Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Secure Trust Bank Plc should pay £150. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2024. 
   
Ray Lawley 
Ombudsman