DRN-5306276 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss W has complained about how J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (trading as “Chase”) 
handled a chargeback request she made in respect of a payment made using her current 
account debit card. 
What happened 
In early March 2024, Miss W used her debit card to pay for a takeaway from a company I’ll 
refer to as “D”. The sum of £28.71 in respect of this transaction was debited to Miss W’s 
current account on 3 March 2024. 
In March 2024, Miss W asked Chase to raise a dispute in respect of the payment she had 
made to D as items from her order were missing, and D was not responding to her.  
In or around April 20924, and unhappy with how her dispute was being handled, Miss D 
raised a complaint with Chase. 
On 19 April 2024 Chase issued Miss W with a final response letter in respect of her 
complaint. Under cover of this letter Chase said it was still considering her payment dispute 
but for its handling of her claim to date, and for providing incorrect information, it would credit 
her current account with £25. 
On 21 April 2024, Chase raised a chargeback on Miss W’s behalf. 
On 2 May 2024, and with D having defended the 21 April 2024 chargeback, Chase raised a 
second chargeback on Miss W’s behalf. 
On 3 June 2014, and with the second chargeback having been successful, Chase credited 
Miss W’s current account with £28.71. 
In June 2024 Miss W referred her complaint to our service. Miss W says she was particularly 
unhappy Chase had not provided her with a temporary credit whilst it was considering her 
payment dispute. Chase accepted it had advised Miss W she would not receive a temporary 
credit and that this advice was incorrect, at least for the reason it gave her. 
One of our Investigators reviewed Miss W’s complaint but didn’t think Chase needed to do 
anything further. 
Miss W asked for her complaint to be reviewed, saying it took months of stress to sort things 
out. So, it has come to me for a decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 

 
 
I’m sorry to read Miss W has been unwell and wish her well. But having reviewed her 
complaint, I’m not persuaded Chase need do anything further. 
Here, Miss W’s chargeback was successful, and she received a refund of her payment to D. 
So, the only issue for me to decide is whether Chase made any errors in its handling of 
Miss W’s request that requires me making an award of compensation in excess of the £25 
Chase has already paid her. 
I appreciate Miss W didn’t receive a refund until 3 June 2024. But having regards to the 
relevant chargeback scheme rules I’m satisfied that Chase dealt with matters in a timely 
manner and that it kept Miss W sufficiently informed.  
Miss W has focused on Chase’s decision not to provide her with a temporary credit. 
However, although it’s not in dispute Chase gave Miss W an incorrect reason for not giving 
her a temporary credit the fact remains it was under no obligation to do so. Furthermore, 
given the disputed sum was less than £30 (and given the balance on Miss W’s current 
account between March and June 2024 inclusive) I can’t see that Chase refusing to provide 
Miss W with a temporary credit caused her financial difficulties. 
With the above in mind, and having reviewed the customer service Chase provided Miss W 
in the round, I’m satisfied that £25 constitutes fair and reasonable compensation. And with 
this sum having already been paid to Miss W I’m further satisfied that Chase need not do 
anything further. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 June 2025. 
   
Victoria Blackwood 
Ombudsman