DRN-4623853 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss S is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Hyundai Finance was of an unsatisfactory quality. 
 
What happened 
In September 2021, Miss S was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Hyundai. She paid an advance payment of £500, and the agreement was for 
£14,888 over 49 months; with 48 monthly payments of £259.36 and a final payment of 
£5,712.32. At the time of supply, the car was around three and a half years old. 
 
Miss S started to have engine problems with the car in August 2023. The car couldn’t be 
repaired under warranty because the service history of the car was incomplete. So, Miss S 
complained to Hyundai. 
 
Hyundai upheld the complaint, confirming the service history was the responsibility of the 
supplying dealership. So, they arranged for the car to be repaired at no cost to Miss S. They 
also paid her £50 compensation for what had happened. 
 
The car went in for repair in September 2023, and Miss S was provided with a courtesy car 
while the repairs were taking place. However, the repairs weren’t completed until 8 
December 2023, during which time the courtesy car had been vandalised. So, when Miss S 
returned the courtesy car, she was charged £300 excess for the damage. Unhappy with 
what had happened, Miss S brought her complaint to us for investigation. 
 
Our investigator said that the £300 excess charge wasn’t something we were able to 
consider, as the courtesy car was provided by a third-party company, not Hyundai. So Miss 
S would need to raise her complaint about this charge directly with the third-party company. 
 
With regards to the issues with the car, the investigator thought Hyundai had acted 
reasonably by arranging for the repairs. However, as the £50 compensation Hyundai had 
offered was for the issues with the service history, the investigator thought Hyundai should 
pay Miss S an additional £100 for the delays in the car being repaired. 
 
Hyundai agreed with the investigator’s opinion, but Miss S didn’t. She didn’t think a total of 
£150 compensation was sufficient for the distress and inconvenience she’d suffered. She 
said she’d had to be signed off work by her doctor, and eventually forced to change jobs, 
“due to the pressure and stress I was under due to not being able to do the travels with 
work.” Because Miss S didn’t agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I’ve reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I haven’t commented on any specific point, it’s because I don’t 

 
 
believe it’s affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, I’ve reached my view on the balance of probabilities – what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
 
In considering this complaint I’ve had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss S was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
we’re able to investigate complaints about it. 
 
In this instance, it’s not disputed there was a problem with the car, nor that the issue with the 
service history resulted in a delay in the car being repaired. As such, I’m satisfied that I don’t 
need to consider the merits of this issue within my decision. Instead, I’ll focus on what’s still 
disputed – the level of compensation, if any, Hyundai should pay Miss S for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delays to the repairs to the car. 
 
The car went in for repair on or around 15 September 2023 and was returned to Miss S on 8 
December 2023 – a period of about 12-weeks. During this time, Miss S was provided with a 
courtesy car. As detailed above, the courtesy car was vandalised, and Miss S was asked to 
pay the £300 excess charge for this. The investigator’s opinion was that any issues with the 
courtesy car were down to the third-party courtesy car supplier, not Hyundai.  
 
As neither Miss S nor Hyundai have objected to this finding, I’m satisfied it’s agreed that 
Hyundai aren’t responsible for the courtesy car issues. So, it follows that any distress or 
inconvenience caused to Miss S as a result of any courtesy car issues aren’t down to 
Hyundai, and I wouldn’t expect them to compensate her for this. 
 
So, when considering what Hyundai need to do to put things right, I will only be considering 
any distress or inconvenience that’s directly caused by the 12-weeks it took for the car to be 
repaired. 
 
Putting things right 
Miss S has explained that she was off work with stress due to the overall situation, and that 
this eventually resulted in her having to move jobs. She’s also said that she’s been treated 
terribly by Hyundai. However, this is the impact of the whole situation and, as I’ve said, I’m 
only considering the delays in the car being repaired. 
 
Based on the evidence I’ve seen, the delay in repairing the car was as a result of availability 
of parts. And I can see by the messages Miss S exchanged with Hyundai at the time the 
repairs were taking place that it was a very frustrating time for her. However, at no point 
during the delay process did Miss S advise either Hyundai or ourselves that she was signed 
off work – either as a result of the stress caused by the delays or otherwise. 
 
What’s more, while Miss R advised Hyundai in mid-January 2024 that she’d changed jobs, 
and therefore needed to change the direct debit date on her agreement, she’s not explained 
specifically why the delays caused her to be signed off from work, or why the delays resulted 
in her having to change jobs. 
 
I note our investigator also recommended Hyundai pay Miss S an additional £100, taking the 
total compensation to £150, to recognise the distress and inconvenience she’s been caused 
by the delays. And having considered this recommendation, I think it’s a fair one that falls in 
line with our service’s approach and what I would’ve directed, had it not already been put 
forward. 
 
 
 
I think this is significant enough to recognise the worry and frustration Miss S would’ve felt as 
a result of having to wait for parts before her car could be repaired, but also fairly reflects 
that Miss S was kept mobile in a courtesy car, and that I haven’t seen anything to show me a 
direct link between the delays specifically, and Miss S being signed off work and/or needing 
to change jobs. So, this is a payment I’m directing Hyundai to make. 
 
Therefore, Hyundai should: 
 
• pay Miss S an additional £100 to compensate her for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by the delays in the car being repaired. This takes the total compensation to 
£150. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I uphold Miss S’s complaint about Hyundai Capital UK Limited 
trading as Hyundai Finance. And they are to follow my directions above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2024. 
   
Andrew Burford 
Ombudsman