DRN-4630198
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Wise Payments Limited won’t refund all the money he lost to an 
investment recovery scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isn’t in dispute that Mr Y authorised two payments totalling £2,730 on 9 May 2023 
from his Wise account towards what he believed was a company trying to recover 
money from a previous investment he’d made. The payments were sent to an 
individual Mr Y legitimately purchased crypto from on a peer-to-peer basis. The 
payments were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials, and the 
starting point is that payment service providers (‘PSPs’) ought to follow the 
instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed. 
However, I’ve considered whether Wise should have done more to identify that Mr Y 
could be falling victim to a scam, as there are some situations in which PSPs should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transaction. For example, if it was particularly unusual and out of character. 
Mr Y’s Wise account was a relatively new account having been opened in March 
2023. Therefore, there was very little activity for Wise to compare the disputed 
payments to. In my judgement, the disputed payments were not sufficiently unusual 
or suspicious in appearance for Wise to suspect that Mr Y could be falling victim to a 
scam. Wise says that Mr Y was asked to provide a reason for the payments and he 
stated he was sending money to himself and it showed him warnings relevant to this 
risk. The warning wasn’t crypto or investment specific, but I do think it was 
proportionate to the risk Wise may have reasonably identified based on Mr Y’s 
answer. There weren’t any obvious identifiable features of the payments that ought to 
have suggested that Mr Y could be falling victim to a scam. As he sent the funds to 
another person to purchase crypto, Wise wouldn’t have known that he was 
purchasing crypto unless Mr Y disclosed it. I don’t see that he did, and I don’t find 
that Wise missed an opportunity to intervene or provide a warning to him about the 
potential risks his payments posed. 
Wise attempted to recover Mr Y’s payments but there were no funds remaining. I 
expect this to be the case as Mr Y purchased crypto from another person and sent 

this crypto onto the scammers. There would have been no prospect of Wise 
recovering his payments as he didn’t pay the scammers directly. 
I’m not persuaded Wise acted unreasonably by declining to refund Mr Y and I don’t 
consider there to be any fair or reasonable basis in which it can be held responsible 
for his loss.
I appreciate my outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr Y and I’m very sorry to see 
he’s lost his money to cruel scammers. But for the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t require 
Wise to do anything differently.
 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Y’s loss, I don’t uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman