DRN-4880261 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited have provided poor customer 
service when dealing with her claim.      
   
What happened 
Miss M held a motor policy with Admiral on which her parents were both named drivers.  
 
In September 2022 Miss M’s car was damaged in an accident with a lorry and the third party 
was held liable. This was a serious accident and Miss M has been severely impacted by this.    
 
Miss M’s car was deemed a total loss on 28 September 2022 and Admiral paid settlement 
for the car on 5 October 2022.  
 
However, Miss M has subsequently raised complaints about poor service, delays, and 
significant distress and inconvenience arising from the poor service since the accident.  
 
In Admirals’ last final response letter dated 11 October 2023 they reviewed all of the 
complaint points raised since 28 February 2023 and offered a total of £325 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused overall. 
 
Miss M wasn’t happy with this outcome and so she brought her complaint to us.   
 
One of our investigators looked into Miss M’s complaint and she recommended that Admiral 
pay a total of £625 as compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
 
After a further exchange with Admiral they agreed to this, but Miss M thought that this was 
insufficient to recognise the distress and inconvenience she had experienced and so the 
case has come to me to review. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can understand that the circumstances of the accident will have been extremely distressing 
for Miss M and her parents, and the psychological impact from this is an ongoing issue.  
 
Whilst I can’t take this into account in looking at Miss M’s complaint, I can look at any 
additional impact caused by the service failings of Admiral. 
 
I’m pleased to see that the settlement for the car was paid promptly but agree that there 
were miscommunications and missed opportunities to support and manage Miss M’s 
expectations regarding her claim and uninsured losses in the months that followed, and this 
has clearly added to her distress, and made it difficult for her to move forward.  
 

 
 
Admiral have already accepted that the service they provided had fallen below the standard 
that Miss M should have received. 
 
So I‘ve considered whether the recommendation of £625, which Admiral have agreed to pay, 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for the additional distress and inconvenience 
experienced, and I think it is. I will explain why.  
 
Distress and inconvenience caused by the delays and poor service 
 
Initially Admiral were unable to ascertain who was the owner and insurer of the third party 
vehicle because they were trying to trace it using an incorrect registration number provided 
when the claim was made.  
 
In November 2023 Admiral requested the police report to try and identify the third party 
vehicle. This was a significant delay from when the accident took place, and it doesn’t 
appear that Admiral followed up on this either.  
 
By February no progress had been made despite several calls and complaints made by Miss 
M and her parents, but during an investigation of the complaints on 17 February 2023 
Admiral were able to progress matters as the case handler identified that the request had 
been sent to the wrong police force, and also managed to identify the third party vehicle and 
insurer and obtain an admission of liability. As a result, they no longer needed the police 
report, and things could progress.  
 
I think this aspect of the service could have been handled better and much quicker. I’m not 
sure why no one went back to Miss M to check the third party vehicle details, or why they 
didn’t chase the police report, but it seems to me that this 5 month delay is at the root of 
some of the frustrations experienced by Miss M, and whilst I can appreciate that she had 
received the settlement for her vehicle, it delayed matters being passed to Admiral Law for 
the uninsured loss recovery and for any personal injury claim to be dealt with. It is this kind 
of inactivity that reduces a consumer’s confidence in the insurer and can cause an impact 
because it compounds the stress already caused by the accident.  
 
The incorrect registration 
 
I can see that Miss M and her mum feel that Admiral are blaming them for the delay as the 
registration number originally provided by them was incorrect.  
 
Having reviewed the communication I don’t think Admiral were blaming anyone there, just 
trying to explain why some of the delay occurred – and an incorrect registration was 
provided albeit unwittingly.  
 
But as I have said above, I think that regardless of the incorrect registration, Admiral could 
have done more to identify the third party vehicle sooner – and so I’m satisfied that the 
responsibility for delay lies with them. 
 
 
 
 
Communication 
 
Miss M has made several complaints about communication – in relation to both its content 
and frequency. She feels that when Admiral advised her about having recovered their own 
losses on 4 April 2023 it was “rubbing salt in her wounds” because she was still out pocket 
for her uninsured losses (excess) when they had recovered theirs.  
 
 
 
Admiral has a responsibility to update their customers about progress, and this is significant 
step in the progress of the claim, and so I can’t say Admiral have acted unfairly here. There  
is also nothing in the tone of the communication that is inappropriate. In cases like this, 
where liability is accepted, the recovery of the insurer’s losses will often happen first, but the 
recovery of any uninsured losses is not part of their remit and has to be handled by the 
solicitors along with any personal injury – so it can take longer to settle. 
 
Miss M had also complained that she received inaccurate information about her uninsured 
losses from Admiral. I think that Admiral did try and explain how uninsured losses work, but  
it wasn’t made clear that this isn’t guaranteed, and so the communication here could have 
been better.  
 
In terms of the frequency of communication, Miss M and her parents have all contacted 
Admiral for updates throughout the claim. I can see that some of the time Admiral did 
respond and left voicemails and messages, but I can also see that there were occasions 
when call backs were missed, and this added to the anxiety that Miss M was feeling about 
the claim and its progress. Admiral have accepted that they have fallen short here.  
 
Miss M also asked for specific responses from some named executives, and says these  
requests weren’t complied within a reasonable timeframe. She was also unhappy with the 
complaint outcome and felt a thorough investigation hadn’t been completed.  
 
As this aspect of the complaint is about how Miss M’s complaint had been handled by 
Admiral, I am unable to comment, as complaints handling isn’t a regulated activity, and is 
outside the scope of what I can consider. I have, however, considered all of the other 
communication and agree that in the main it has fallen short of the service Miss M should 
have experienced.  
 
The police report 
 
Miss M feels that Admiral should have continued to try and obtain the police report.  
 
As I have explained above, the police report was to assist in identifying the correct third party 
vehicle, and once this had been done by other means in February 2023, and there was an 
admission of liability, we wouldn’t expect Admiral to continue with this as it was no longer 
needed.  
 
I have addressed the delays relating to this aspect of the complaint above.  
 
Having reviewed all the information and evidence on the file I think that the overall service 
Miss M has experienced has been poor in terms of the delay and the communication.  
 
I understand that Miss M has been through a very traumatic accident and when that 
happens, we expect an insurer to step in and sort everything out without having to chase 
them, and without the inconvenience that she has experienced here. However, as I said at 
the start, I can’t take into account any trauma from the accident itself, and I can see that the 
initial settlement for the car was sorted out quickly, enabling Miss M to purchase another car 
if she wished.  
 
 
 
So the outstanding issues related to the uninsured losses (excess) and any personal injury 
claim. As these are issues that have to be dealt with by Admiral’s solicitors, they can and 
 
 
often do take many months in any event, but hopefully with the admission of liability it will be 
a fairly swift resolution.  
 
Whilst I appreciate that Miss M thinks she should have a significantly higher award for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, I am satisfied that £625 is fair given what I have said 
above and taking into account the range of compensation that we consider to be fair for 
distress and inconvenience lasting over a few months.  
 
I haven’t included the £100 already paid for complaints handling errors in this – as this is 
outside my remit.   
 
Putting things right 
To put things right, Admiral should 
 
• Pay Miss M a total of £625 for the trouble and upset caused by the poor service, 
deducting any sums already paid.  
  
My final decision 
My decision is that I am upholding Miss M’s complaint about Admiral Insurance Limited and 
directing them to put things right as above.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2024. 
   
Joanne Ward 
Ombudsman