DRN-4004822
The complaint
Mr M complains that a van he has been financing through an agreement with First Response 
Finance Ltd (who I’ll call First Response) was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I don’t think First Response need to take any further 
action.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his van under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Misrepresentation
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) is relevant. In broad terms this means that any 
negotiations between Mr M and the credit broker or supplier are deemed to have been 
conducted by them as an agent of the lender (First Response).
If Mr M was provided with a false statement of fact and if that false statement was a 
significant factor in him entering into the agreement, I may think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to him. In those circumstances I may ask First Response to take some 
further action.
Misrepresentation of the engine variant
Mr M says the van was misrepresented to him because he was told it was a BiTDI and he 
subsequently discovered it was just a TDI and the engine therefore had a lower power 
rating. 
I’m persuaded that the van was misrepresented to him as I can see the original advert 
referred to the van being a BiTDI and it’s clear that wasn’t the case.

I think that was likely to be a concern that would have led Mr M not to proceed with the deal.
In those circumstances I’d have asked the business to try to put Mr M back in the position he 
would have been in had the misrepresentation not have taken place.
I can see that the dealership offered to do this for Mr M when he originally complained of the 
issue in about May 2021. They said they’d take the van back.
But subsequently neither Mr M nor the dealership wanted to proceed with that option. That 
was because Mr M revealed he’d spent about £16,000 converting the van into a campervan.
Mr M naturally didn’t want to return the van without compensation for that “upgrade”, and the 
dealership only wanted to take the van back in its original form.
As the van was sold in June 2022 the business have considered how best to compensate 
Mr M for the misrepresentation, given that the van can no longer be returned. They’ve 
offered to pay Mr M £350 in compensation to supplement the £300 the dealership have 
already offered him, in recognition of any variation in price between the engine Mr M was 
told he was getting and the one he received. 
I think that’s a reasonable offer and I say that because:
It wasn’t feasible to return the van as it had been modified. Mr M suggests that 
modification was authorised by First Response as they’d told him he could do so if 
the modifications were reversible. I think it unlikely that £16,000 of modifications 
could be easily reversible. I note, for instance, that the photograph Mr M has 
provided of the van seems to demonstrate a new side window has been fitted; I don’t 
think that could fairly be considered reversible. So, as the contract didn’t allow such 
modification I don’t think First Response could be considered unreasonable to not 
take the van back and compensate Mr M for the loss of his investment in those 
“unauthorised” modifications.
Our investigator carried out their own valuation of the van and believed its sales price 
was in line with a TDI variant.
First Response have explained they never considered the value on the basis of the 
van being a BiTDI and that their calculation of the finance was always based on the 
van being only a TDI variant. 
Mr M has provided some valuations he says are for similar vehicles. I’m not 
persuaded they represent reliable comparators as they’re for vans with different 
years and/or mileages.
So, even though Mr M was told the engine was more powerful than it was it doesn’t seem, 
from the evidence provided, that he was significantly financially impacted by that. I think the 
compensation now offered between the dealership and First Direct reflects fair 
compensation for the misrepresentation Mr M has experienced.
Misrepresentation of the van’s service record
The advert said the van had a “full service history” but Mr M says that wasn’t true. He says 
the timing belt would have been changed if that was the case and he says that’s what led to 
the belt failing and the van’s engine suffering damage that meant it needed replacing.
I think, given the time that’s elapsed, it is for Mr M to demonstrate the misrepresentation of 
the service records. I don’t think he’s been able to do that. He suggests the service book is 
blank but hasn’t provided a copy of it, or a copy of the pages showing any servicing that has 
been done which may have illustrated the gaps he says were present.
I’m not persuaded I have sufficient information to suggest the van was misrepresented to 
him on that basis.
Was the van of satisfactory quality?
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the van should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then First Response, who are also the 
supplier of the van, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. And the relevant law says we should consider whether the goods have been 
durable when we think about whether they’ve been of satisfactory quality.
The van had already completed over 100,000 miles when it was supplied to Mr M, and I 
think a reasonable person would expect it to therefore be experiencing significant wear and 
tear. I don’t think a reasonable person would consider an engine failing at over 100,000 
miles to be unexpected, or to demonstrate that the van wasn’t durable.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when First response were responsible for the 
van’s quality. But as the engine failed after more than six months the relevant legislation puts 
the onus on Mr M to do so. I’ve not seen any expert evidence to demonstrate that, and I’m 
not therefore minded to conclude it is likely the van was of unsatisfactory quality.
Ultimately, I think the offer First Response have made is a fair one and I’m not asking them 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman