DRN-4409384
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (“Barclays”) failed to pick up on unusual activity 
on his account and offer appropriate support for his spending on gambling which was due to 
a third party influencer/scammer. Mr L says this resulted in losses of approximately £50,000. 
Mr L also complains Barclays has discriminated against him by closing his account following 
him informing it of a mental health condition he suffers from. 
What happened
Mr L opened an account with Barclays in April 2022 with an opening balance of around 
£6,000. On 24 June 2022 Mr L’s account was credited with £22,500. On 30 June Mr L 
transferred £3,950 to another account of his held with a third party over 14 separate 
payments. This pattern of a high volume of repeated transactions continued through July, 
then slows down and then resumes in October and November along with payments to 
specific gambling merchants. By the end of November the funds are spent in their entirety.
Mr L complained to Barclays that the gambling transactions amounted to fraud and that he 
was scammed because he made the transactions after watching an influencer who told him 
how to constantly win gambling bets. Mr L says Barclays should’ve prevented these 
transactions as he suffers from a mental health condition which makes him vulnerable.
Barclays said as Mr L admitted to authorising these transactions they can’t be classified as 
fraud or disputed transactions. Furthermore, it wasn’t aware of Mr L’s health condition prior 
to the disputed transactions and just because he suffered from this particular health 
condition doesn’t mean it would block these transactions. Barclays said Mr L was able to 
utilise tools it had available to block these transactions if he had wanted to, so didn’t uphold 
Mr L’s complaint regarding these transactions. But Barclays agreed Mr L had received poor 
service and conflicting advice regarding his complaint and paid him £100 compensation for 
this. 
Mr L was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. Since raising his 
initial complaint Mr L also has raised a further complaint point regarding Barclays closing his 
account which Barclays have responded to.
Our investigator looked at all of this and thought that the account showed obvious 
compulsive spending that was both unusual and irregular activity and that should’ve 
prompted Barclays to contact Mr L to see if he needed any support. 
But they thought even if Barclays had stepped in and offered support - given Mr L’s history - 
it was unlikely to have made a difference and Mr L would’ve gambled anyway. So they didn’t 
think Barclays should reimburse the losses. But they thought Barclays should compensate 
Mr L a further £500 (on top of the £100 already paid) for not providing appropriate support 
and providing Mr L with options designed to help him given the activity on Mr L’s account.
They didn’t think Barclays had closed Mr L’s account unfairly as this was a commercial 
decision Barclays was entitled to take and they didn’t think the decision to close Mr L’s 
account was based on Mr L informing Barclays of his medical condition.

Barclays have accepted this recommendation and agreed to compensate Mr L £500. Mr L is 
dissatisfied with this, he would like Barclays to compensate him the full amount of his losses 
and has asked for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr L won’t take it as a discourtesy that I’ve condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and I’ve concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. And the crux of Mr 
L’s complaint is that Barclays failed to pick up on unusual activity on his account and provide 
appropriate support which has resulted in him losing a significant amount of money.
Mr L has complained that Barclays unfairly closed his account, following him informing it of a 
mental health condition he suffers from. Although this isn’t Mr L’s main complaint point - as 
per above - and was raised after Mr L brought his complaint to this service, Barclays have 
had a chance to respond, so I have considered this also. And after considering all the 
evidence and arguments I don’t think Barclays have treated Mr L unfairly when it took the 
decision to close his account. 
I say this because who Barclays decides to provide banking services to and what services it 
provides is a commercial decision that it is entitled to take. Furthermore, Barclays isn’t 
obligated to provide a reason for the commercial decisions it makes – just as Mr L’s is free to 
decide and for whatever reason, who he’d like to deposit his money with. 
Though in saying that I don’t think it would be fair for Barclays to withdraw banking facilities 
without reason. And I agree to close down an account due to a customer’s medical condition 
would be unfair and discriminatory. And although I accept Mr L’s account was closed 
following him informing Barclays of his medical condition, I don’t agree that this was the 
reason his account was closed. 
From the evidence I’ve seen, Barclays decision to close Mr L’s account was for commercial 
reasons allowed within its terms and conditions and unrelated to his medical condition. 
Furthermore, Mr L wasn’t left without banking facilities because of this, so I don’t think 
Barclays treated Mr L unfairly here and don’t uphold this part of his complaint. 
I sympathise with Mr L, there is no doubt based on what I’ve seen he’s been through a lot 
and continues to struggle – not just with his gambling and I do hope he manages to get the 
help and support he needs and his situation improves. 
 
In regards to Mr L’s main complaint point, I’ve thought very carefully about whether Mr L’s 
account activity should’ve been enough to alert Barclays that something may have been 
wrong and that it needed to step in. And I’m in agreement with our investigator that bearing 
in mind the sheer number of transactions going in and out of Mr L’s account following a 
significant amount being deposited, I think it could be reasonably concluded that this activity 
was both unusual and irregular and pointed to signs that Mr L might be having difficulties 
and spending in a way that was detrimental to him. And I think it became more obvious that 
Mr L had a problem with gambling from October when transactions to gambling merchants 
started appearing on his statements. 
So I agree that Barclays should’ve stepped in and at the very least reached out and asked 
Mr L about these transactions and whether he needed any support.
But I’m also in agreement with our investigator here that from the information we have 
regarding Mr L’s history that even if Barclays did reach out to Mr L and offer support that it 
was unlikely that this would’ve made a difference and that Mr L would still have continued to 
gamble – whether influenced by the third party or not - and the money still would’ve been 
lost.
I say this because there is medical evidence to show that Mr L was already in debt due to 
gambling. I appreciate Mr L has told us that this “gambling” debt was paid off and that the 
spending he is complaining about relates transactions he made following advice from a third 
party influencer and scammer. 
I’ve considered this point carefully and I still think essentially the spending was gambling 
related and would’ve continued – regardless of whether Barclays had stepped in. Indeed, Mr 
L had a multiple number of accounts set up and that he was using to facilitate this. So even if 
he stopped using the Barclays account to transact on, he was still able to use his other 
accounts – accounts which were outside of Barclays control. 
So because of this I don’t think it can be said that if it wasn’t for Barclays failure to reach out 
and offer appropriate support Mr L wouldn’t have lost out. And so I don’t think Barclays 
should return the funds Mr L spent.
But I do think Mr L should be compensated for Barclays’ failure to offer any support at all 
despite what Mr L’s account was showing and I think the further £500 compensation 
recommended by our investigator is fair and in-line with what we’d recommend in situations 
such as this.
So having considered everything, I don’t think Barclays treated Mr L unfairly in closing his 
account and although I think Barclays failed to take appropriate action and offer Mr L support 
when I think there were patterns of spending which suggested he was vulnerable, I don’t 
think Barclays should refund Mr L for this spending as I think it would have continued 
regardless. But I do think Mr L should be compensated for Barclays failings and I think an 
appropriate award here is £500.  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained I’ve decided to uphold Mr L’s complaint and direct Barclays 
Bank UK PLC pay the fair compensation outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman