DRN-4612853 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss D complains about Nationwide Building Society. 
She says that Nationwide didn’t do enough to protect her when she became the victim of a 
scam and would like it to refund her the money she has lost as a result.   
What happened 
Miss D had been researching cryptocurrency investments for some time, and in May 2023 
came across an advert online for a company offering this type of investment. The company 
was supposedly endorsed by a well-known TV personality. 
 
Miss D says that she checked the reviews online, and found they were positive. She filled in 
a contact from and received a phone call from an individual who was to be her account 
manager. 
 
The individual talked her through how things would work, and Miss D began making 
payments which I have listed below. The payments went Miss D’s account with C, another 
bank, before being transferred on to a cryptocurrency exchange. 
 
Payment Date Payment type  Amount 
1 08/05/23 Faster payment £900 – blocked by Nationwide and returned 
2 17/06/23 Faster payment £200 
3 14/07/23 Faster payment £1,000 
4 20/07/23 Faster payment £270 
5 27/07/23 Faster payment £1,000 
6 28/07/23 Faster payment £1,000 
7 03/08/23 Faster payment £3,100 
8 08/08/23 Faster payment £1,720 
9 14/08/23 Faster payment £250 
10 18/08/23 Faster payment £1,600 
11 24/08/23 Faster payment £1,500 
12 25/08/23 Faster payment £1,900 
13 30/08/23 Faster payment £1,500 
14 06/09/23 Faster payment £3,500 
15 08/09/23 Faster payment £3,500 
16 12/09/23 Faster payment £6,500 
17 15/09/23 Faster payment £3,000 
  Total loss  £31,540 
Unfortunately, Miss D had fallen victim to a scam, which she realised when she tried to make 
a withdrawal from her investment and was unable to do so. 
 
She reported the scam to Nationwide, but it didn’t refund her any of the money she lost. 
Miss D then brought a complaint to this Service. 
 

 
 
Our Investigator looked into things but didn’t think that Miss D’s complaint should be upheld. 
Miss D asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I’ve decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing 
for Miss D, so I’ll explain why.  
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that banks and other payment service providers 
(PSP’s) are expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to 
make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions 
of the customer’s account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what’s fair and 
reasonable in this case. 
 
Miss D authorised the payments in question – so even though she was tricked into doing so 
and didn’t intend for the money to end up in the hands of a scammer, she is presumed liable 
in the first instance.  
 
But this isn’t the end of the story. As a matter of good industry practice, Nationwide should 
also have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions – particularly 
unusual or uncharacteristic transactions – that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
However, there is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to 
fraud and scams and to act in their customers’ best interests, but they can’t reasonably be 
involved in every transaction 
 
Taking into account the law, regulator’s rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider Nationwide should 
fairly and reasonably: 
 
• Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
• Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
• In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
• Have been mindful of – among other things – common scam scenarios, how the 
fraudulent practices are evolving (including for example the common use of multi-
stage fraud by scammers, including the use of payments to cryptocurrency accounts 
as a step to defraud consumers) and the different risks these can present to 
consumers, when deciding whether to intervene. 
 
In this case, I need to decide whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Miss D when she authorised payments from her account or whether it could and should 
have done more before processing them. 
 
 
 
Nationwide has shown that it blocked the initial payment of £900 that Miss D made as part of 
the scam. When it did this, it spoke to her about what was happening, and after listening to 
what Miss D explained, Nationwide told her that this was a scam, and that she should not 
continue with the payment. 
 
Miss D agreed with what Nationwide had told her – and said that she wouldn’t make any 
further payments. Nationwide flagged the account that Miss D was trying to send the money 
to. However, Miss D kept communicating with the scammer, and subsequently carried on 
making payments – but this time to a different account in her name.  
 
I wouldn’t have expected payments 2-15 to have triggered any further action. The amounts 
weren’t significantly unusual or suspicious enough that I think Nationwide needed to make a 
further intervention in what Miss D was doing. The payments were spread out over three 
months and didn’t significantly jump in value. The payments also didn’t go to the same 
account as before and were to an account in Miss D’s own name, which was an established 
payee – and Miss D had already had a scam warning from Nationwide, which she told it she 
had listened to. 
 
I do think that payment 16 may have warranted further investigation from Nationwide, as it 
was much larger than normal – but for me to uphold Miss D’s complaint, I would have to 
think that a further intervention from Nationwide would have stopped Miss D from continuing 
with the payment, and I’m afraid that I don’t think that it would, although Miss D has said that 
this would have stopped her from continuing. 
 
Miss D had already been told by Nationwide she was being scammed but decided to 
continue anyway. Miss D had also been coached by the scammer into believing that UK 
banks do not like crypto currency, and Miss D says that she believed that Nationwide’s 
warning was a general statement, rather than an actual warning. 
 
Had Nationwide intervened again, I can’t say that Miss D would have taken more notice of 
the warning than she previously did, especially as she had been coached by the scammer 
into believing that UK banks did not like crypto currency. And while I know that Miss D feels 
that the warning Nationwide gave was a general statement, I don’t think that it was. It asked 
her about what she was doing and explained that she was being scammed and not to 
continue, which is not a general statement.  
 
I am very sorry for the situation Miss D now finds herself in – she has lost a lot of money to 
cruel scam. But the loss she has suffered is the fault of the scammers, not Nationwide. And I 
can’t ask it to refund her when it educated her about the risks, and she still chose to 
continue, and I don’t think that a further intervention would have made a difference.  
My final decision 
I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2025. 
   
Claire Pugh 
Ombudsman