DRN-4251205
The complaint
Mr J complains that Nationwide Building Society (“Nationwide”) won’t refund over £57,000 
he lost to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr J fell victim to an investment scam after he was contacted 
by a scammer (“H”) on social media in May 2021. 
Mr J was encouraged to invest and made the following payments from his Nationwide 
account to his crypto wallet, where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammer:
18/5/21 – £20 to Cryptopay Ltd (card payment)
18/5/21 – £20 to Cryptopay Ltd (card payment)
19/5/21 – £10 to Cryptopay Ltd (transfer)
20/5/21 – £56 to Cryptopay Ltd (card payment)
4/6/21 – £3,600 to Cryptopay Ltd (card payment)
23/6/21 - £348 to Cryptopay Ltd (card payment)
28/6/21 - £150 to Cryptopay Ltd (card payment)
2/7/21– £356 to Cryptopay Ltd (card payment)
12/7/21 – £10,000 to Cryptopay Ltd (transfer)
14/7/21 – £50 to Cryptopay Ltd (card payment)
19/7/21 – £1,100 to Cryptopay Ltd (transfer)
20/7/21 – £60 to Cryptopay Ltd (card payment)
27/7/21 - £75 to Cryptopay Ltd (card payment)
2/8/21 – £10,000 to Cryptopay Ltd (transfer)
2/8/21 – £10,000 to Cryptopay Ltd (transfer)
2/8/21 – £10,000 to Cryptopay Ltd (transfer)
3/8/21 – £4,500 to Cryptopay Ltd (transfer)

9/8/21 – £8,250 to Cryptopay Ltd (transfer)
Mr J realised he’d been scammed when he was unable to withdraw his profits in August 
2021. 
Mr J reported the fraud to Nationwide and asked it to consider reimbursing the money he’d 
lost. Nationwide agreed that it could have done more to protect Mr J from falling victim to the 
scam in light of the unusual spending activity on his account and said it should have made 
further enquiries when he came to make the £3,600 payment on 4 June 2021. It therefore 
agreed to refund the money lost from this point onwards, albeit with a 50% deduction in 
recognition of Mr J’s own contributory negligence – totalling £28,517.08. Mr J didn’t think this 
was fair, so he referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. He thought Nationwide’s offer of settlement was 
fair because he didn’t think an intervention by the bank would have ultimately prevented his 
loss to the scam, given Mr J said he’d carried out extensive research into H before investing 
with them. Mr J disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and I don’t think 
Nationwide needs to offer anything more to Mr J. 
It isn’t in dispute that Mr J authorised the disputed payments he made to the cryptocurrency 
exchange platforms from his Nationwide account (where his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammers from those platforms). The payments were requested by him 
using his legitimate security credentials provided by Nationwide, and the starting position is 
that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
Nationwide has accepted that it should have intervened from the £3,600 payment on 4 June 
2021. And having reviewed the payments that took place before, I don’t think there would’ve 
been any cause for the bank to intervene prior to the £3,600 payment, as the transactions 
were not unusual enough to warrant an intervention. As a result, Nationwide has agreed to 
refund 50% of the payments made from 4 June 2021 onwards. And having considered all 
the evidence, I’m satisfied its offer is fair. I’ll explain why.
Mr J has explained that he carried out substantive due diligence into H, and that he 
understood the broker to be operating under the trading name of a company that was FCA 
registered. He queried various aspects of H’s credentials, such as why it was listed as a 
dormant company but said he was provided with screenshots and evidence from the 
scammer that assured him it was fully operational and legitimate. 
Therefore, if Nationwide had intervened and warned him of a potential scam and told him to 
carry out further research into H to check its legitimacy, it seems unlikely that this would’ve 
ultimately revealed the scam. Mr J said he’d already carried out extensive research into the 
broker and was convinced of its legitimacy. So, it’s hard to see what else Nationwide could 
have done to break that spell, as it seems there is little else he could have found at the time 
that would have led him to believe he was being scammed. In such circumstances, a bank 
wouldn’t be expected to refund any of its customer’s losses, which is why I don’t think 
Nationwide needs to pay anything over and above what it has already offered.
Even if I were to accept that an intervention would have likely prevented any further loss, I’m 
still satisfied it would be fair for Nationwide to deduct 50% from Mr J’s compensation due to 
his own contributory negligence. Mr J has said that he was guaranteed a return on his 
investment, where he was told that he would “get the exact 100%, nothing less”. Any 
investment broker offering a 100% guaranteed or “risk-free” return on investment should give 
reasonable cause for concern that it’s a scam. Such a promise ought to have seemed too 
good to be true, but it appears Mr J didn’t do anything to independently verify the unrealistic 
guarantees being made by H and decided to invest regardless. 
As a result, I’m satisfied his own actions have contributed to his loss, such that it would be 
fair for Nationwide to deduct 50% of the money lost in recognition of this if it were accepted 
that the bank could’ve prevented the scam, which, as I’ve set out above, I’m not persuaded it 
reasonably could’ve done in these circumstances. So, either way, I don’t consider 
Nationwide would be liable to pay anything further to Mr J than it has already offered.   
Mr J’s representatives have also made numerous submissions relating to the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). However, as they will no doubt be aware, the CRM 
Code does not apply to card payments or bank transfers made to an account in the 
customer’s own name, so none of the payments Mr J made as part of the scam would fall 
within the scope of the Code for reimbursement. 
I also don’t think there was anything more Nationwide could’ve done to recover the money 
Mr J lost. In terms of the debit card payments, a chargeback claim would’ve had little 
prospect of succeeding given Mr J received the asset he had purchased (i.e. the 
cryptocurrency). Similarly, for the faster payments, there would’ve been no prospect of 
recovering the money from the receiving accounts either, given we know these accounts 
were controlled by Mr J, who had already transferred the cryptocurrency on to the scammer 
by the time the fraud had been reported. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr J, and I’m sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, I will not be asking Nationwide to take any further 
action in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman