DRN-4974326 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked his account.  
 
Mr H also complains that Barclays took too long to release his account balance back to him, 
gave him wrong information and sent money back to source. and gave him wrong 
information. 
 
What happened 
Mr H has a current account with Barclays. 
  
Mr H used another account he held with a different finanical business, which I will refer to as 
R,  to receive payments from P2P purchases he made of USDT cryptocurrency. Mr H would 
then move the money from his account with R to his Barclays account. 
Mr H used a cryptocurrency trading platform, which I will refer to as B to sell USDT. Mr H 
has explained that he relied on B to screen the individuals who he transacted with and that 
he didn’t know any of the individuals.  
 
On 15 June 2022, Mr H received two payments from an indvidual I wil refer to as Mr K into 
his account with R for a total of £1,225.33. Mr H has explained that he recevied the 
payments from trading in USDT. In July 2022, Mr H then transferred £9,000, which included 
the funds from Mr K, to his account with Barclays.  
 
In November 2022, Barclays decided to review how Mr H was operating his account and 
asked him to provide information about the £9,000 transfer he’d received into his account.  
Mr H sent Barclays paperwork including his payslips, overseas working visa, passport and 
driving licence. Whilst Barclays reviewed everything it blocked Mr H’s account. 
 
Following this Barclays receiied an indemity from R, for the £9,000 Mr H had transferred to 
his Barclays account. In response, Barclays removed just under £8,980 from Mr H’s account 
and placed it in a suspense account whilst it decided how to react to the indemnity.  
 
Mr H contacted Barclays and asked them what was happening with his money. Barclays 
incorrently told Mr H that it had sent the money back to R. Following this Barclays received 
more information from R which said that one of R’s customers had fallen victim to an 
investment scam invlving multiple accounts, inlcuding Mr K’s. R told Barclays that Mr K had 
sent some of the proceeds of the scam (£1,225.33) onto Mr H, and asked them to recover 
the money so that it could be returned to the victim of the scam. 
 
In response, on 2 December 2022,  Barclays returned £1,225.33 to R.  And on 5 December 
2022, Barclays removed the block on Mr H’s account.  
 
Mr H contacted R to try and locate his funds. He also visited a Barclays branch on more than 
one occasion to try and gain access to the money Barclays had removed from his account. 
But Barclays wouldn’t provide him with much information. R told Mr H that it hadn’t received 
any money back from Barclays.  

 
 
 
On 30 May 2024, Barclays retuned the money it removed from Mr H’s account. Mr H 
complained. He said Barclays hadn’t given him all his money back and that the money he’d 
received in June 2022, from Mr K was missing. In response, Barclays accepted that it had 
witheld more than it should have from Mr H after it had recevied the indemnity from R. To put 
things right it offered to pay Mr H 8% simple interest on the balance of Mr H’s account, which 
was £7,747.23 from 2 Decmber 2022 until 30 May 2024. And £350 compensation for the 
trouble and upset the caused by the length of time it had taken them to release the funds to 
Mr H.  
 
Unhappy with this response, Mr H brought his complaint to our service. He said he is out of 
pocket and wants the rest of the money that was in his account- the money that Barclays 
returned to R. He said Barclays didn’t ask him at the time about the money he’d transferred 
and that the transctions he made using B, were legitimate and done in good faith. He said he 
had no knowledge that there was anthing untoward about the funds coming into his acocunt 
with R. And that now because he had moved countries and the time that has gone by he 
can’t provide any other paperwork to support his entitlement to the funds Barclays sent back.  
To support his explanaiton Mr H provided our service with screenshots of correspondence 
he had with B, which confirmed they were unable to provide him with any specific 
information.  
 
One of our investigator’s looked at the information Mr H had provided. He said Barclays 
hadn’t done anything wrong by reviewing and blocking Mr H’s account. However, he didn’t 
think Barclays had treated Mr H fairly when it sent the money back to R. To put things right 
the investigator said Barclays should: 
 
• Refund Mr H the £1,225.33 it sent back to R along with 8% interest for loss of use of 
these funds.  
• Pay 8% simple interest on £7,747.23 (Mr H’s balance) from 2 December 2022 until 
30 May 2024 
• Pay Mr H a total of £500 compensation for the trouble and upset the matter had 
caused him. 
 
Mr H agreed. Barclays didn’t. It said it hadn’t done anything wrong when it sent some of the 
money paid into Mr H’s account back to source. It said it had done so because it represented 
the proceeds of crime and was obliged to comply with the indemnity claim it had received 
from R. 
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Account block and review 
 
I appreciate that Mr H is upset that Barclays blocked his account. I can also understand that 
this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the Barclays’s actions made it difficult for 
him to pay for the cost of getting to work. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be 
satisfied that Barclays has done something wrong. And in this case, I don’t think it has. I’ll 
explain why.  
 
I want to make it clear that I understand why what happened concerned Mr H. I’ve no doubt 
it would’ve come as quite a shock to him, and he would’ve been very worried to find out that 
 
 
his account had been blocked. But as the investigator has already explained, Barclays has 
extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account 
services to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect 
persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.  
 
I’ve considered the basis for Barclays’s review and having done so I find this was legitimate 
and in line with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, I’m satisfied Barclays acted fairly by 
blocking Mr H’s account.  I appreciate that Mr H wanted to know more at the time about why 
Barclays did what it did. But Barclays isn’t obliged to tell Mr H why it blocked and reviewed 
his account, and I don’t believe it would be appropriate for me to require it to do so as much 
as he’d like to know.  
 
The terms and conditions of Mr H’s account also make provision for Barclays to review and 
suspend an account. And having looked at all the evidence, I’m satisfied that Barclays have 
acted in line with these when it suspended Mr H’s account. So, although I understand not 
having access to his account caused Mr H trouble and upset it wouldn’t be appropriate for 
me to award Mr H compensation since I don’t believe Barclays acted inappropriately in 
taking the actions that it did when it blocked Mr H’s account.  
 
Indemnified funds 
 
The crux of Mr H’s complaint is that he wants Barclays to refund him the money he says he 
lost as a result of the cryptocurrency sales he made with Mr K. Having looked at all the 
evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I’m minded to say that the fair and reasonable 
outcome is that Barclays refund the money to Mr H. I shall explain why. 
 
First, I’d like to acknowledge the difficulties that this complaint presents. There was a 
particular tension for Barclays here because on the face of it, both Mr H and R’s customer 
were victims. There is a natural impulse to restore positions as far as possible. It is well 
documented that banking fraud is very damaging not only to the financial sector itself, but 
more particularly to individuals. 
 
Barclays decided to return the funds to the sending business, so that it’s customer,  
could be refunded. Barclays said it did this on the basis that the sending business had 
provided Barclays with an indemnity. The effect of Barclays’s actions meant that Mr H lost 
both his cryptocurrency which he’d sold legitimately to Mr K and the money he had expected 
in payment for it. 
 
In this case Mr H had a credible complaint. There’s no evidence to suggest Mr H dishonestly 
procured the funds from Mr K. Nor is there any evidence that he knew, believed, or 
suspected that the funds had been illegitimately procured by someone else in order to pay 
for the USDT. 
 
Barclays have said they were obliged to return the funds after receiving an indemnity for the 
sending business. However, I disagree with this. An indemnity is simply an agreement 
between the two financial businesses that provides some protection to the receiving bank 
being asked to return the funds by the sending business. It doesn’t compel the receiving 
bank to return the funds, if following its own investigation, it establishes that its customer has 
a legal right to the money and was not involved in any fraud or scam. So, I don’t agree that 
the indemnity Barclays received from the sending business placed any legal obligations on 
them to return the money. 
 
I’ve also looked at Barclays’s terms and conditions and I can’t see that there is a specific 
term that allows the bank to do what it did. However, even if there were I’d expect Barclays 
to carry out its own investigation to establish if Mr H had behaved fraudulently and to 
 
 
investigate the sending businesses’ claim. This is in line with the industry best practice 
standards when receiving a report that their consumer has been the recipient of fraudulent 
funds. With this in mind, I don’t accept Barclays acted fairly when it returned the payments to 
source. 
 
I say this because Mr H has provided this service with information about the transactions 
which led up to the payments he received from selling USDT. He’s sent this service 
evidence that the payments were made by Mr K to his account with R. And explained that he 
no longer has anything else to provide about the transactions. But he has provided evidence 
of him contacting B, trying to get more information, which revealed that Mr H had one 
dispute made against him, although its not clear if this had anything to do with the payments 
he received from Mr K I note that B decided Mr H hadn’t done anything wrong. So, I’m 
persauded that Mr H has provided as much information as he is now able about the money 
and that his explanation is plausible. 
 
I’ve not seen any evidence that Barclays asked Mr H about the payments he received from 
Mr K  before it decided to return them to source. If Barclays had asked Mr H about his 
dealings with Mr K, I think it’s likely he would’ve been able provide the information that he 
has given to this service to the bank at the time. And possibly more. But I haven’t seen 
anything to show that Barclays asked Mr H about the transactions or contacted the sending 
bank to investigate things further in light of what Mr H told the bank about selling 
cryptocurrency to different individuals. Based on what I’ve seen I think it’s most likely Mr H 
was engaged in genuine cryptocurrency transactions. Therefore, I can’t see any reason for 
Barclays to return the money to the sending bank. So, I find the fair resolution here, based 
on the information I’ve seen so far, would be for Barclays to return the funds it took from  
Mr H’s account. Mr H has also been deprived of these funds so I think Barclays should also 
pay Mr H 8% simple interest for loss of use of these funds. 
 
Funds witheld that weren’t indemnified 
 
Barclays has accepted that it made a mistake when witheld the whole balance of Mr H’s 
account instead of the £1,225.33. I can see that R wrote to Barclays and clarified that the 
indemnified amount was much lower than the £9,000 it intially said it was. But Barclays didn’t 
release the rest of Mr H’s balance back to him until May 2024. It hasn’t explained why it took 
so long or provided a reasonable explanation for this delay. So I’m satisfied that Mr H has 
been caused inconvenience and been without his funds for longer than necessary. I’ve also 
kept in mind that Barclays removed the block from Mr H’s acount on 2 December 2022, 
which suggests to me they didn’t have any further concerns with how Mr H had been 
operating his account. 
 
Barclays has offerd to pay Mr H 8% simple interest per anum on the balance it incorrectly 
witheld from Mr H, at the time this was £7,747.23, and £350 compensation for th trouble and 
upset this caused Mr H. I’m satisifed that this is fair and resonable to resolve this aspect of 
Mr H’s complaint.  
 
 
 
Impact  
 
I can see from looking at Barclays contact notes that Mr H has visited a branch on more than 
one occasion to try and fnd out what was happening and locate his account balance, which 
would have been time consuming. I note too that Barclays told Mr H that it had sent all of his 
funds back to R, which wasn’t correct. And it was only when Mr H contacted R and raised a 
complaint that he was told Barclays still had his money. So, I think the service Barclays 
providd here fell short of what Mr H could have expected. And I think Barclays should pay  
 
 
Mr H an additional £150 compensation to refect the trouble and upset providing 
misinformation caused Mr H. 
 
In summary, Barclays’s actions caused Mr H a great deal of worry and upset. Mr H had to 
spend time contacting Barclays trying to sort out what had happened to his funds. He was 
leftout of pocket, and I don’t think Barclays did enough to satisfy themselves that Mr H 
wasn’t entitled to the money paid into his account. I also think Barclays should pay 
compensation for the trouble and upset this overall situation has caused Mr H and I consider 
the amount of £500 to be appropriate in the circumstances. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, my final decision is that I partly uphold Mr H’s complaint. To 
put things right Barclays Bank UK PLC should do the following: 
 
• Pay Mr H £1,225.33 that was returned to R. 
• Pay 8% simple interest per anum on £1,225.33 from 2 Decebmer 2022 until the date 
the funds are returned to M H*. 
• Pay 8% simple interest per anum on £7,747.23 from 2 December 2022 until 30 May 
2024*. 
• Pay Mr H a total of £500 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused him. 
 
*If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
tax from that interest, it should tell M H how much it’s taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2025. 
   
Sharon Kerrison 
Ombudsman