DRN-4438771 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr H complains that Revolut Ltd won’t refund money he lost when he fell victim to a scam. 
 
What happened 
Mr H was speaking with someone on a dating app, who I’ll call ‘M’. M told him about 
significant profits they had made investing through an investment platform which I’ll call ‘V’. 
Mr H downloaded V’s trading app and felt it appeared trustworthy, he says M also showed 
him evidence of the profits she had made, so he began to invest, following advice M gave to 
him. Mr H initially made a small investment of £100 and believed he had earned good profits 
on this investment. He says he asked to withdraw some profits, but his request was refused, 
and he was told to make further payments for money laundering checks. Mr H carried on 
making payments to V for investments and believed he had made a very significant profit 
over the next couple of weeks.  
 
Unfortunately, and unknown to Mr H, V was not a legitimate investment, he was dealing with 
a scammer. When he again asked to withdraw his profits, he was told he must pay a large 
tax bill first, and at this stage Mr H became suspicious and realised he had been scammed. 
 
In total, Mr H made card payments and transfers of over £110,000 to buy cryptocurrency 
which he then passed on to the scammers. The payments he made are detailed below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mr H contacted Revolut to let it know what had happened, but it declined to refund any of the 
disputed payments. Revolut said that the payments were not out of character for Mr H, given 
his previous account usage, and that the loss had been from Mr H’s accounts with the 
cryptocurrency exchanges, so it did not consider it was liable for that loss.  
 
Payment Date Amount  Payee 
Payment 1 17/04/2023 £100 Card payment 
Payment 2 19/04/2023 £3,500 Card payment 
Payment 3 19/04/2023 £100 Card payment  
Payment 4 21/04/2023 £4,100 Card payment 
Payment 5 21/04/2023 £60 Card payment 
Payment 6 25/04/2023 £24,300 Bank transfer 
Payment 7 28/04/2013 £22,500 Bank transfer 
Credit 28/04/2023 £504.95 Credit from crypto exchange 
Payment 8 30/04/2023 £11,200 Bank transfer 
Payment 9 01/05/2023 £11,100 Bank transfer 
Payment 10 01/05/2023 £55 Bank transfer 
Payment 11 01/05/2023 £13,900 Bank transfer 
Payment 12 02/05/20236 £18,400 Bank transfer 
Payment 13 03/05/2023 £6,894 Bank transfer 
Credit 04/05/2023 £124.50 Credit from crypto exchange 
 
 
Unhappy with this, Mr H referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought 
Revolut should have provided Mr H with a tailored warning relating to cryptocurrency 
investment scams at the time of Payment 2. Had it done so, our investigator considered it 
more likely than not that Mr H would not have made any further payments to the scam.  So, 
they recommended that Revolut refund Mr H’s loss from that point onwards, minus 50% as 
they also considered Mr H should share some responsibility for his loss.   
 
Mr H accepted the investigator’s findings, but Revolut did not. It maintains that the activity on 
Mr H’s account was not unusual enough to warrant intervention, and that it does not have an 
obligation to prevent fraud and scams. Revolut also says that, in any case, Mr H’s loss was 
from his cryptocurrency accounts, not from his Revolut account. So, it does not consider it 
should bear any responsibility for that loss. 
 
As an agreement couldn’t be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that an Electronic Money Institution (“EMI”) 
such as Revolut is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations (in this case the 
2017 regulations) and the terms and conditions of the customer’s account. 
 
And, as the Supreme Court has recently reiterated in Philipp v Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
subject to some limited exceptions banks have a contractual duty to make payments in 
compliance with the customer’s instructions. 
 
In that case, the Supreme Court considered the nature and extent of the contractual duties 
owed by banks to their customers when making payments. Among other things, it said, in 
summary: 
• The starting position is that it is an implied term of any current account contract that, 
where a customer has authorised and instructed a bank to make a payment, it must 
carry out the instruction promptly. It is not for the bank to concern itself with the 
wisdom or risk of its customer’s payment decisions. 
• At paragraph 114 of the judgment the court noted that express terms of the current 
account contract may modify or alter that position. In Philipp, the contract permitted 
Barclays not to follow its consumer’s instructions where it reasonably believed the 
payment instruction was the result of APP fraud; but the court said having the right to 
decline to carry out an instruction was not the same as being under a legal duty to do 
so. 
 
In this case, the terms of Revolut’s contract with Mr H modified the starting position 
described in Philipp, by – among other things – expressly requiring Revolut to refuse or 
delay a payment “if legal or regulatory requirements prevent us from making the payment or 
mean that we need to carry out further checks” (section 20).  
 
So Revolut was required by the terms of its contract to refuse payments in certain 
circumstances, including to comply with regulatory requirements such as the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Principle for Businesses 6, which required financial services firms to pay 
due regard to the interests of their customers and treat them fairly. I am satisfied that paying 
 
 
due regard to the interests of its customers and treating them fairly meant Revolut should 
have been on the look-out for the possibility of fraud and refused card payments in some 
circumstances to carry out further checks. 
 
In practice Revolut did in some instances refuse or delay payments at the time where it 
suspected its customer might be at risk of falling victim to a scam.  
 
I must also take into account that the basis on which I am required to decide complaints is 
broader than the simple application of contractual terms and the regulatory requirements 
referenced in those contractual terms. I must determine the complaint by reference to what 
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case (DISP 3.6.1R) 
taking into account the considerations set out at DISP 3.6.4R. 
 
Whilst the relevant regulations and law (including the law of contract) are both things I must 
take into account in deciding this complaint, I’m also obliged to take into account regulator’s 
guidance and standards, relevant codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time: see DISP 3.6.4R.  So, in addition to 
taking into account the legal position created by Revolut’s standard contractual terms, I also 
must have regard to these other matters in reaching my decision.  
 
Looking at what is fair and reasonable on the basis set out at DISP 3.6.4R, I consider that 
Revolut should in April 2023 have been on the look-out for the possibility of fraud and have 
taken additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing payments in some 
circumstances.    
 
In reaching the view that Revolut should have been on the look-out for the possibility of fraud 
and have taken additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing payments in 
some circumstances, I am mindful that in practice all banks and EMI’s like Revolut did in fact 
seek to take those steps, often by:  
 
• using algorithms to identify transactions presenting an increased risk of fraud;1 
• requiring consumers to provide additional information about the purpose of 
transactions during the payment authorisation process;  
• using the confirmation of payee system for authorised push payments;   
• providing increasingly tailored and specific automated warnings, or in some 
circumstances human intervention, when an increased risk of fraud is identified.   
 
For example, it is my understanding that in April 2023, Revolut, whereby if it identified a 
scam risk associated with a card payment through its automated systems, could (and 
sometimes did) initially decline to make that payment, in order to ask some additional 
questions (for example through its in-app chat).  
 
I am also mindful that:  
 
• Electronic Money Institutions like Revolut are required to conduct their business with 
“due skill, care and diligence” (FCA Principle for Businesses 2), “integrity” (FCA 
 
1 For example, Revolut’s website explains it launched an automated anti-fraud system in August 2018: 
https://www.revolut.com/news/revolut_unveils_new_fleet_of_machine_learning_technology_that_has
_seen_a_fourfold_reduction_in_card_fraud_and_had_offers_from_banks_/ 
 
 
Principle for Businesses 1) and a firm “must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems” (FCA Principle for Businesses 3)2. 
• Over the years, the FCA, and its predecessor the FSA, have published a series of 
publications setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor practice found 
when reviewing measures taken by firms to counter financial crime, including various 
iterations of the “Financial crime: a guide for firms”.   
• Regulated firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money 
laundering and countering the financing of terrorism requirements. Those 
requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk – for example 
through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship). I do not suggest that Revolut ought to 
have had concerns about money laundering or financing terrorism here, but I 
nevertheless consider these requirements to be relevant to the consideration of 
Revolut’s obligation to monitor its customer’s accounts and scrutinise transactions.    
• The October 2017, BSI Code3, which a number of banks and trade associations were 
involved in the development of, recommended firms look to identify and help prevent 
transactions – particularly unusual or out of character transactions – that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam.  Not all firms signed the BSI Code (and 
Revolut was not a signatory), but the standards and expectations it referred to 
represented a fair articulation of what was, in my opinion, already good industry 
practice in October 2017 particularly around fraud prevention, and it remains a 
starting point for what I consider to be the minimum standards of good industry 
practice now (regardless of the fact the BSI was withdrawn in 2022).  
• Revolut should also have been aware of the increase in multi-stage fraud, particularly 
involving cryptocurrency when considering the scams that its customers might 
become victim to. Multi-stage fraud involves money passing through more than one 
account under the consumer’s control before being sent to a fraudster. Our service 
has seen a significant increase in this type of fraud over the past few years – 
particularly where the immediate destination of funds is a cryptocurrency wallet held 
in the consumer’s own name. And, increasingly, we have seen the use of an EMI 
(like Revolut) as an intermediate step between a high street bank account and 
cryptocurrency wallet.   
• The main card networks, Visa and Mastercard, don’t allow for a delay between 
receipt of a payment instruction and its acceptance: the card issuer has to choose 
straight away whether to accept or refuse the payment.  They also place certain 
restrictions on their card issuers’ right to decline payment instructions.  The essential 
effect of these restrictions is to prevent indiscriminate refusal of whole classes of 
transaction, such as by location. The network rules did not, however, prevent card 
issuers from declining particular payment instructions from a customer, based on a 
perceived risk of fraud that arose from that customer’s pattern of usage.  So it was 
 
2 Since 31 July 2023 under the FCA’s new Consumer Duty package of measures, banks and other 
regulated firms must act to deliver good outcomes for customers (Principle 12), but the circumstances 
of this complaint pre-date the Consumer Duty and so it does not apply. 
3 BSI: PAS 17271: 2017” Protecting customers from financial harm as result of fraud or financial 
abuse” 
 
 
open to Revolut to decline card payments where it suspected fraud, as indeed 
Revolut does in practice (see above).      
 
Overall, taking into account relevant law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider it fair 
and reasonable in April 2023 that Revolut should:   
 
• have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including preventing fraud and scams;   
• have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which firms are generally more familiar with than the average customer;    
• in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, or provided additional warnings, before 
processing a payment – (as in practice Revolut sometimes does); and  
• have been mindful of – among other things – common scam scenarios, how the 
fraudulent practices are evolving (including for example the common use of multi-
stage fraud by scammers, including the use of payments to cryptocurrency accounts 
as a step to defraud consumers) and the different risks these can present to 
consumers, when deciding whether to intervene.  
 
Whilst I am required to take into account the matters set out at DISP 3.6.4R when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable, I am satisfied that to comply with the regulatory requirements 
that were in place in April 2023, Revolut should in any event have taken these steps. 
      
Should Revolut have recognised that Mr H was at risk of financial harm from fraud?  
 
Mr H’s Revolut account had been open for several years at the point the scam payments 
were made. So, Revolut had an extensive account history against which to compare any 
new payments. And the initial payment Mr H made was small, and was to a cryptocurrency 
exchange Mr H had used before, so I don’t think this payment would have been an 
immediate cause for concern. 
 
I’m also aware that cryptocurrency exchanges generally stipulate that the card used to 
purchase cryptocurrency at its exchange must be held in the name of the account holder, as 
must the account used to receive cash payments from the exchange. Revolut would likely 
have been aware of this fact too. So, it could have reasonably assumed that payments Mr H 
was making would be to a cryptocurrency wallet held in Mr H’s name.  
 
But by April 2023, when these transactions took place, firms like Revolut had been aware of 
the risk of multi-stage scams involving cryptocurrency for some time. Scams involving 
cryptocurrency have increased over time. The FCA and Action Fraud published warnings 
about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018 and figures published by the latter show that losses 
suffered to cryptocurrency scams have continued to increase since. They reached record 
levels in 2022. During that time, cryptocurrency was typically allowed to be purchased 
through many high street banks with few restrictions. 
 
 
 
By the end of 2022, however, many of the high street banks had taken steps to either limit 
their customer’s ability to purchase cryptocurrency using their bank accounts or increase 
friction in relation to cryptocurrency related payments, owing to the elevated risk associated 
with such transactions.  This left a smaller number of payment service providers, including 
Revolut, that allowed customers to use their accounts to purchase cryptocurrency with few 
restrictions. These restrictions – and the reasons for them – would have been well known 
across the industry. 
 
So, taking into account all of the above I am satisfied that by the end of 2022, prior to the 
payments Mr H made in April 2023, Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have recognised 
that its customers could be at an increased risk of fraud when using its services to purchase 
cryptocurrency, notwithstanding that the payment would often be made to a cryptocurrency 
wallet in the consumer’s own name. 
 
And the second payment Mr H made to the scam, for £3,500, was significantly larger than 
any other payment that had debited Mr H’s account previously. So, while Mr H had 
previously made cryptocurrency related transactions, meaning the purchase of 
cryptocurrency was not entirely out of character, bearing in mind the value of this payment I 
think that the circumstances should have led Revolut to consider that Mr H was at 
heightened risk of financial harm from fraud. In line with good industry practice and 
regulatory requirements, I am satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to conclude that Revolut 
should have warned Mr H before this payment went ahead. 
 
What did Revolut do to warn Mr H, and what should it have done? 
 
I’ve thought carefully about what a proportionate warning in light of the risk presented would 
be in these circumstances. In doing so, I’ve taken into account that many payments that look 
very similar to this one will be entirely genuine. I’ve given due consideration to Revolut’s duty 
to make payments promptly, as well as what I consider to have been good industry practice 
at the time this payment was made. 
 
Taking that into account, I think Revolut ought, when Mr H attempted to make Payment 2, 
knowing that the payment was going to a cryptocurrency provider, to have provided a 
warning (whether automated or in some other form) that was specifically about the risk of 
cryptocurrency scams, given how prevalent they had become by the end of 2022. In doing 
so, I recognise that it would be difficult for such a warning to cover off every permutation and 
variation of cryptocurrency scam, without significantly losing impact. 
 
So, at this point in time, I think that such a warning should have addressed the key risks and 
features of the most common cryptocurrency scams – cryptocurrency investment scams. 
The warning Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have provided should have highlighted, 
in clear and understandable terms, the key features of common cryptocurrency investment 
scams. I recognise that a warning of that kind could not have covered off all scenarios. But I 
think it would have been a proportionate way for Revolut to minimise the risk of financial 
harm to Mr H by covering the key features of scams affecting many customers but not 
imposing a level of friction disproportionate to the risk the payment presented. 
 
If Revolut had provided a cryptocurrency investment scam warning, would that have 
prevented the losses Mr H incurred after that point? 
 
 
 
I’ve thought carefully about whether a specific warning covering off the key features of 
cryptocurrency investment scams would have likely prevented any further loss in this case. 
And on the balance of probabilities, I think it would have. There were several key hallmarks 
of common cryptocurrency investment scams present in the circumstances of Mr H’s 
payments, such as being approached on a social media type platform by someone offering 
investment opportunities, being advised on trades by an unregulated third-party, being 
promised unrealistic returns, and being unable to withdraw any ‘profits’. 
 
I’ve also seen no indication that Mr H was asked to, or agreed to, disregard any warnings 
provided by Revolut. Neither do I think that the conversations I’ve seen demonstrate a 
closeness of relationship that Revolut would have found difficult to counter through a 
warning. I understand that Mr H did not agree to the fraudsters demands for him to pay taxes 
on his withdrawal and it was his difficulty in withdrawing money that led him to realise he had 
been scammed, so he was clearly willing to question what he was being told by the 
scammer if he had been given reason to doubt that what he was doing was part of a 
legitimate investment. 
 
With all this in mind, I’m satisfied that Mr H was not so taken in by the fraudsters that he 
wouldn’t have listened to the advice of Revolut. 
 
I’ve also seen no evidence that Mr H was provided with warnings by the firm from which the 
funds used for the scam appear to have originated. His Revolut account appears to have 
been linked to that account for several years and therefore would have likely been an 
established and trusted payee. 
 
Therefore, on the balance of probabilities, had Revolut provided Mr H with an impactful 
warning that gave details about cryptocurrency investment scams and how he could protect 
himself from the risk of fraud, I believe it would have resonated with him. He could have 
paused and looked more closely into the investment scheme before proceeding, more likely 
than not revealing the scam and preventing his further losses. 
 
Is it fair and reasonable for Revolut to be held responsible for consumer’s loss?  
In reaching my decision about what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account that the 
funds lost to this scam originated with another bank, and were passed to Mr H’s 
cryptocurrency accounts before being sent on to the scammers.  
 
But as I’ve set out in some detail above, I think that Revolut still should have recognised that 
Mr H might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud when he made Payment 2, and in 
those circumstances it should have provided Mr H with a relevant warning about that 
payment. If it had taken those steps, I am satisfied it would have prevented the losses Mr H 
suffered. The fact that the money used to fund the scam came from elsewhere and/or wasn’t 
lost at the point it was transferred to Mr H’s own account does not alter that fact and I think 
Revolut can fairly be held responsible for Mr H’s loss in such circumstances. I don’t think 
there is any point of law or principle that says that a complaint should only be considered 
against either the firm that is the origin of the funds or the point of loss.  
 
I’ve also considered that Mr H has only complained against Revolut. I accept that it’s 
possible that other firms might also have missed the opportunity to intervene or failed to act 
fairly and reasonably in some other way, and Mr H could instead, or in addition, have sought 
to complain against those firms. But Mr H has not chosen to do that and ultimately, I cannot 
compel him to. In those circumstances, I can only make an award against Revolut.  
 
 
 
I’m also not persuaded it would be fair to reduce Mr H’s compensation in circumstances 
where: the consumer has only complained about one respondent from which they are 
entitled to recover their losses in full; has not complained against the other firm (and so is 
unlikely to recover any amounts apportioned to that firm); and where it is appropriate to hold 
a business such as Revolut responsible (that could have prevented the loss and is 
responsible for failing to do so). That isn't, to my mind, wrong in law or irrational but reflects 
the facts of the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position.  
 
Ultimately, I must consider the complaint that has been referred to me (not those which 
haven’t been or couldn’t be referred to me) and for the reasons I have set out above, I am 
satisfied that it would be fair to hold Revolut responsible for Mr H’s loss from Payment 2 
(subject to a deduction for Mr H’s own contribution which I will consider below).  
 
Should Mr H bear any responsibility for his losses?  
 
In considering this point, I’ve taken into account what the law says about contributory 
negligence as well as what’s fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
There’s a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions. I’ve 
duly considered whether Mr H should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. And considering the details of this scam I do think it is fair that he bear some 
responsibility for his losses. 
 
I say this because Mr H has said he found out about this investment after he was contacted 
by someone on a dating app who told him they had made good profits, not the usual route 
where one would find legitimate investment advice. And by the time of Payment 2, Mr H 
appears to have believed he had made a proportionally very large profit on his initial small 
investment, this really does strike me as being something Mr H should have seen was too 
good to be true, this is not the kind of return that a legitimate investment would generally 
offer, not even a high risk one such as cryptocurrency. I understand that Mr H says V’s 
trading platform appeared professional, but I’ve been unable to locate any independent 
reviews (either positive or negative) of V, so it would seem that Mr H decided to invest 
without seeking any independent opinions regarding whether it was a legitimate or 
trustworthy business. I’m also aware that, after his initial small investment, Mr H was told he 
couldn’t withdraw his profits without making more payments into the scheme, and I think this 
should have been a point of further concern to him. 
 
So, having thought carefully about this, I do think that Mr H ought to bear some responsibility 
for his losses and that the refund due to him should be reduced by 50% accordingly. I also 
note that Mr H appears to have credited some funds back into Revolut from his 
cryptocurrency account at a later stage in the scam, and those funds should also be 
deducted from any refund due to him. 
 
Putting things right 
To resolve this complaint Revolut should: 
• Refund 50% of Mr H’s loss (minus any credits received as detailed in the table 
above) from Payment 2 onwards (inclusive); and 
• Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the refunded amount, calculated from the date 
of each payment to the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible). 
 
 
 
My final decision 
I uphold this complaint, Revolut Ltd should now put things right in the way I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2025. 
   
Sophie Mitchell 
Ombudsman