DRN-5273942 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr W complains M & G Securities Limited trading as M&G Investments (‘M&G’) 
unreasonably delayed the transfer of his stocks and shares ISA. 
What happened 
Mr W had a stocks and shares ISA with M&G. He wanted to transfer the contents of the ISA 
to a cash ISA with a different business which I’ll refer to as ‘B’. 
The transfer experienced delays and Mr W complained to M&G. M&G said it hadn’t done 
anything wrong. It set out its understanding of the course of events which included that M&G 
had received a copy of the transfer form on 29 Jun 2024 and had requested the original 
signed version but didn’t receive it until 20 July 2024. And it said it sent the transfer history 
form and a cheque multiple times because B said it didn’t receive them. It said it understood 
Mr W had had to visit B three times, but that wasn’t due to any error by M&G. 
Mr W wasn’t satisfied. He referred his complaint to this service. In summary he said he 
started the transfer process online on 28 May 2024. And B had said it had repeatedly asked 
M&G for documents and M&G had repeatedly failed to respond. And he said M&G sent post 
to the wrong address. Mr W said the transfer took so long that he missed out on a cashback 
offer from B – the deadline for the offer was 30 August 2024 and Mr W missed out on £50. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr W’s complaint. She thought M&G hadn’t acted 
promptly enough during the transfer process and should pay Mr W interest on the funds that 
were held up in the delay and £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
M&G didn’t agree with the investigator’s view. It said there was no record it received any 
correspondence about the transfer before 29 June 2024, and it wasn’t until 20 July 2024 that 
it received the correct transfer authority form. It said it acted promptly each time it received 
correspondence and sent documents multiple times when B said it didn’t receive them. It 
said it B said M&G was sending correspondence to the correct address, and B had received 
at least some of the correspondence M&G had sent to that address. 
Because no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I set out my understanding of what had happened 
when. I said I was minded not to uphold the complaint. But I’d consider any comments from 
either party before making a final decision. M&G said it had nothing to add. Mr W said he 
didn’t agree with my provisional decision. He said B had told him he had a valid complaint 
and he hoped M&G would improve its processes so other customers didn’t experience 
delays. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 

 
 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I’m not upholding the complaint. I’ll explain why. 
The purpose of this decision is to set out my findings on what’s fair and reasonable, and 
explain my reasons for reaching those findings, not to offer a point-by-point response to 
every submission made by the parties to the complaint. And so, while I’ve considered all the 
submissions by both parties, I’ve focussed here on the points I believe to be key to my 
decision on what’s fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In my provisional decision I set out a detailed timeline showing my understanding – based on 
the available evidence – of what happened in relation to Mr W’s ISA transfer. Neither party 
commented specifically on the detail of the timeline. 
The earliest dated letter from B that I’ve seen which provided the transfer form to M&G was 
dated 26 June 2024. I haven’t seen evidence M&G received an earlier dated transfer 
request. M&G has provided multiple contemporaneous records indicating this was the first 
request it received. And M&G subsequently received from B further copies of the same 
request which continued to be dated 26 June 2024. So on balance I’m persuaded 26 June 
2024 was the date B sent the request to M&G. 
The requests dated 26 June 2024 didn’t include the original signed transfer from which M&G 
said it required. It wasn’t until 20 July 2024 that M&G recorded receiving the original signed 
version of Mr W’s transfer form which it had asked for. That date is supported by 
contemporaneous records. I’ve seen a copy of the signed form and the signature is dated 17 
July 2024. So I accept 20 July 2024 was the date M&G received it. 
Following that M&G acted promptly, selling Mr W’s investments and posting a cheque to B 
on 25 July 2024. It sent the transfer history form somewhat later, on 5 August 2024. But I 
don’t regard that as a significant delay of the type that would mean the transfer couldn’t be 
completed in a reasonable time. 
At that point M&G had done all it needed to do for the transfer to be completed. But when B 
said it hadn’t received the cheque or the transfer history form M&G resent them promptly. 
I do find the transfer could’ve been achieved more easily and quickly if M&G had been able 
to send the transfer history form by email instead of post, and the proceeds of the ISA by 
electronic transfer instead of cheque. But the fact M&G sent letters by post and the proceeds 
by cheque shouldn’t itself have meant the transfer couldn’t happen in a reasonable time. 
I’ve seen that M&G sent its letters to the same address for B each time. And although B said 
it didn’t receive some of them it did receive others. And B agreed by phone with M&G that 
the address M&G used was a valid one. So I can’t hold M&G responsible if the letters 
weren’t received. 
Overall I’m not persuaded M&G unreasonably delayed Mr W’s ISA transfer. So I don’t think 
it’s treated him unfairly. And I’m not requiring M&G to take any action. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve set out above, my final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2025. 
   
Lucinda Puls 
Ombudsman