DRN-4728726 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss L complains Santander UK Plc refused to help her after it did not uphold two complaints 
she had made regarding cash machine withdrawals. Miss L explained Santander said it 
would take back the temporary refunds it had issued but refused to discuss a payment 
arrangement. She said this left her with no other option than to take out a third party loan so 
she could make sure bill payments went out on time.  
 
What happened 
Miss L disputed two cash machine withdrawals. She explained she did not receive the 
money from the machine and complained to her current account provider, Santander. 
Santander gave Miss L a temporary credit of the disputed amounts to her current account 
whilst it investigated. 
  
Santander contacted the third-party responsible for the disputed cash machine and 
completed its investigation. Santander wrote to Miss L explaining it had not upheld either of 
the complaints she had made regarding the withdrawals and would therefore be taking back 
the temporary credits in the next 14 days. 
  
Miss L said she received the letter late and immediately contacted Santander as she was 
concerned if the funds were debited in the proposed timeframe, it would leave her in 
financial difficulty. She explained she wanted to make a payment arrangement with 
Santander so Direct Debits due to go out of her account would still be paid.  
 
Miss L said Santander refused to help her or pass her onto its financial support department 
explaining it could not because she had an open complaint. Santander explained during the 
call it would only be able to pass Miss L to its financial support team when she was in 
arrears.  
 
Miss L said both temporary refunds were taken out of her account earlier than agreed and 
she was left with no other option than to take a loan out from a third party. Miss L said she 
wanted Santander to acknowledge its refusal to help her meant she had to take out a loan, 
she wants further support from Santander and compensation.  
 
Santander looked into her complaint and accepted its service could have been better. It also 
agree there had been issues with her complaint being closed prematurely as it mistakenly 
thought it was duplicate complaint which had led to Santander not contacting her back within 
it agreed timeframe.  
As a gesture of goodwill Santander compensated Miss L paid £27.94, which meant her 
balance was not in debit after the refunds were debited. Santander also apologised for the 
error in closing her complaint and paid Miss L £40 compensation for this issue.  
 
Our investigator thought Santander had done enough and did not uphold Miss L’s complaint. 
  
Miss L rejected our investigators recommendation, so her complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.  
 

 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I have to make decisions on 
the balance of probabilities – that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.  
 
I appreciate how strongly Miss L feels about her complaint. Although I may not mention 
every point raised, I have considered everything but limited my findings to the areas which 
impact the outcome of the case. No discourtesy is intended by this, it just reflects the 
informal nature of our service. 
 
Firstly, Miss L has not complained about Santander decision to not refund the cash machine 
withdrawals. Her complaint is about the timing and administration of Santander taking the 
temporary credits back and about the service she received.  
 
Having carefully considered the information Santander has provided, I am satisfied 
Santander raised the complaints regarding the withdrawals and conducted an investigation 
in reasonable time. The withdrawals were made on 1 October, Santander issued a 
temporary refund shortly afterwards and issued a final decisions on both claims on                
19 October, stating it would take the refunds back in 14 days. 
  
I am conscious The Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSR) do not require businesses to 
provide temporary refunds in these specific circumstances. I have also examined 
Santander’s own terms and conditions, which does not have any procedure for providing 
temporary refunds for disputed cash machine withdrawals. I therefore think it is important to 
recognise Santander were trying to help Miss L when it provided the temporary refund, and I 
think it was being fair and reasonable by providing a temporary refund when it did not have 
to.  
 
I will now consider the debiting of the temporary refunds. Although not strictly applicable 
here, as this was an authorised cash withdrawal, I have considered Chapter 8.210 of the 
Financial Conduct Authorities (FCA) Payment Service and Electronic Money – Our Approach 
guidance. Although this is concerned with unauthorised transactions, it does set out a 
process expected of businesses when they are taking back a temporary refund for a 
disputed transaction. 
 
Chapter 8.210 states: 
 
- If the results of an investigation enable it to prove either that the customer did 
authorise the transaction or was other wise liable, the PSP [business] can reverse 
the refund. Where this occurs, we would expect the provider to give reasonable 
notice of the reversal to the customer. What is “reasonable” will depend on the 
particular circumstances of the case.  
After completing its investigation, Santander did not uphold either of Miss L’s complaints, as 
this is not the subject of the complaint or in dispute, I will not elaborate on the reasons for 
this here. Therefore, I do not think there is any dispute Santander was entitled to take back 
the temporary refunds it had provided to Miss L. What is in question is, having considered 
the FCA guidance above, whether Santander gave reasonable notice in these specific 
circumstances. 
  
 
 
I can see Santander have provided our service with two letters both dated 19 October 2023. 
These letters explained Santander would be debiting the two temporary refunds from Miss 
L’s account ‘in the next 14 days from the date of this letter…’. Miss L has disputed receiving 
these letters, consistently explaining she received them on 31 October during the several 
phone calls with Santander.  
 
Having carefully examined the circumstances, I have no reason to doubt Miss L claim she 
did not receive these letters until the date she has said, but inversely I also have no reason 
to doubt Santander sent the letters in good time on the 19 October, in line with the date on 
these letters. In circumstances such as these, I must be led by the evidence. As I have no 
reason to doubt either party, it follows I cannot say Santander did not issue these letters 
when it said it did, it may be the delay was due to a third party outside of either parties 
control. Nevertheless, I do not think I have enough evidence to find a failure by Santander 
here.  
 
Having considered the above, I have now thought about whether 14 days was enough time 
for Santander to give Miss L, in line with the above FCA guidance.  
 
Having considered Miss L’s bank account during this period I can see she was actively using 
her account, with payments coming in and going out. I think from the activity I have seen it is 
reasonable to conclude Miss L was actively managing her account during this time. I can 
also see the balance was not substantial throughout this period and certainly would not have 
been enough to pay the two large refunds owed to Santander. However, having considered 
this carefully, I think Santander had provided a timeframe in writing and I do not think it was 
unreasonable for them to expect Miss L to make arrangements for funds to be in her account 
for these debits.  
 
Now turning to whether Santander did enough after Miss L contacted it on 31 October. I 
have listened to the calls we have on file between Miss L and Santander on 31 October,      
1 November and 2 November.  
 
Firstly, it is clear to me she was given incorrect information when she first spoke with 
Santander on 31 October. She was clearly advised the refunds would be debited on             
2 November. Regardless of whether 1 or 2 of November can be consider ‘in 14 days’ of 19 
October, the funds were debited on 1 November, contrary to what she was told. I do find this 
was a failing by Santander, which I will address later. 
 
Considering the above, I do think the phrase ‘in the next 14 days from the date of this letter’ 
is open to some interpretation. It is clear Miss L’s and Santander’s interpretation differ. I do 
not intend to reconcile these interpretations here, but I do think this phrasing it is open to 
interpretation. For example, does ‘from’ include the date the letter was written or the day 
after. It may be specifying a date for the debit in the letters would have been preferable and 
clearer for all parties, including Santander’s own call handler on 31 October. 
  
I have listened to the subsequent calls and appreciate much of the discussion is regarding 
what Miss L was told on 31 October. I understand she wanted to speak with someone who 
could assist her with her financial situation. I can see Santander did consider a series of 
options during these calls, including an overdraft and providing advice regarding next steps 
for her Direct Debits. They also explained the process for accessing Santander financial 
support department and explained why she was not eligible at that time, as she was not in 
arrears at the time of these calls.  
 
Having carefully considered these calls after 31 October, I can not see Santander did 
anything wrong. It explained its processes accurately and clearly and I do not uphold Miss 
L’s complaint regarding Santander.   
 
 
 
I have considered the points made in response to the view our investigator issued during a 
telephone call to them in March about why significant funds were transferred out of Miss L’s 
account to a third party during this dispute. Our service has not been provided with any 
evidence substantiating these comments, despite this being agreed to during the telephone 
call. I am therefore unable to consider these points further.  
 
 I have further considered the final response letter sent by Santander on 10 November. This 
letter does not appear to address the issue of Miss L being told the incorrect information on 
31 October when she first contacted but does offer £40 compensation for the failings during 
her contact with Santander.  
 
As I have said, the letters Santander wrote, could be considered as somewhat ambiguous, 
but I am also minded we are discussing a short period of 24 hours difference here. Whilst I 
have considered the impact Miss L claimed, I cannot link this to the decision she took to take 
out a loan, which was also for substantially more than the temporary refund owed. I have 
also weighed this up against what was essentially good service in offering the temporary 
refund in the first place.  
 
Fundamentally, Santander did not have to offer these temporary refunds, whilst I appreciate 
Miss L claims the timing of the refunds affected her, for the reasons I have given I cannot 
find the impact claimed the responsibility of Santander. I think the evidence supports 
Santander gave reasonable notice, but on balance I do not think this was an unreasonable 
approach or timescale for Miss L to ensure she could cover the debits.  
 
I have also considered Santander have already paid Miss L a total of £67.94 compensation, 
offered financial assistance by way of temporary refunds and apologised. I believe this 
compensation is in line with what I would expect for the service issues I have identified in 
this decision. I appreciate Miss L will be disappointed with this decision, but I hope my 
explanation reassures her I have fully consider her complaint.  
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2024. 
   
Gareth Jones 
Ombudsman