DRN-4509478 
 
 
Complaint 
 
Ms C is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didn't reimburse her after she told it she'd fallen 
victim to a scam. 
Background 
In 2021, Ms C was offered an opportunity to invest her money with an individual I'll refer to 
as Mr V. Mr V was presented as a highly skilled forex trader who could generate exceptional 
returns for investors. He told investors that he intended to set up a hedge fund in an offshore 
jurisdiction where all funds would eventually be managed. Another individual, referred to as 
Mr K, appeared to work alongside Mr V to recruit new investors. Unfortunately, it 
subsequently transpired that Mr V wasn't a legitimate investment professional, but a 
fraudster. 
  
As I understand it, Ms C invested based on the recommendation of her daughter. However, 
she also says she knew several other people who had invested with Mr V and who vouched 
for his legitimacy. She invested by transferring £20,000 in May 2021. After doing so, she was 
sent regular investment updates from Mr V and Mr K, typically via email which included 
screenshots of the investment platform Mr V claimed to use for managing client funds. Mr V 
also provided monthly statements reflecting the performance of Ms C’s investment. 
However, as I understand it, there was no platform accessible to investors directly—all 
updates were communicated by email. 
 
Once she realised that she'd fallen victim to a scam, she notified Lloyds. It didn't agree to 
reimburse her. Its position was that Ms C wasn’t the victim of a scam, but instead had a 
private civil dispute with Mr V. Ms C wasn't happy with its response and so she referred her 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it in part. The 
Investigator didn't think, however, that Ms C should be refunded in full because he wasn't 
persuaded she had a reasonable basis to believe that the investment opportunity was a 
genuine one. 
  
Ms C disagreed with the Investigator's view and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision. 
 
Findings 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations (in this case the 2017 regulations) and the terms and conditions of the 
customer’s account. However, that isn’t the end of the story. Lloyds is a signatory to the 
Lending Standards Board’s Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (“CRM Code”). That 
Code requires signatories to pay refunds to victims of authorised push payment (“APP”) 
scams in all but a limited set of circumstances. 
 

 
 
The CRM Code doesn’t apply to all payments. Ms C’s payment is only covered if it meets the 
relevant parts of its definition of an APP scam. For it to do so, Ms C must have "transferred 
funds to another person for what [she] believed were legitimate purposes but which were in 
fact fraudulent."  Lloyds has said that it’s an open question whether Ms C is the victim of a 
scam. It says it’s just as likely that she has a private civil dispute with Mr V regarding an 
investment opportunity that went awry.  
I’m not convinced by that. Ms C isn’t the only customer to have raised concerns about Mr V. 
In several other cases that have been brought to this service, I have seen evidence showing 
that Mr V was not using client funds as intended. Instead, it appears he may have been 
using funds from new investors to pay returns to earlier investors or misappropriating the 
money for his personal use. For those reasons, I’m satisfied that what happened to Ms C 
constitutes an APP scam and so is covered by the CRM Code. 
Lloyds is expected to be on the lookout for payments that display indicators of fraud risk. On 
spotting such a risk, it should take reasonable steps to provide the customer with an 
Effective Warning. I think it needed to do so here. This was a large payment and significantly 
out of keeping with the typical payments made from the account. It was also being made to a 
new payee. I don’t think Lloyds should’ve allowed the payment to be made without providing 
Ms C with an Effective Warning. The evidence I’ve seen suggests it didn’t do so here and so 
I’m satisfied it hasn’t met the standards for firms outline in the CRM Code. 
It's expected to reimburse customers in full, unless an exception to reimbursement applies. 
The Investigator concluded that an exception did apply – specifically, that Ms C made this 
payment without a reasonable basis to believe that this was a legitimate investment. I agree 
with that conclusion. I accept Ms C did sincerely believe this was a genuine investment 
opportunity, but I’m not persuaded that belief was a reasonable one.  
The promised returns here were extraordinary and significantly out of line with those 
available to a typical retail investor at the time. Ms C's representatives have pointed out that, 
when investing in foreign exchange, the risk is higher and that means that the potential 
returns are also very high. I accept that to be the case, but Ms C appears to have been told 
that her capital wasn't at risk and there was no possibility suggested that monthly returns 
could fluctuate depending on market conditions or trading performance. Indeed, Mr V 
appears to have told investors that he would underwrite investment loss risks. I don’t think 
this was at all realistic and Ms C should’ve proceeded with far greater caution. 
I’ve taken into account that Ms C didn’t have any direct experience of investments. I’ve also 
considered the fact that people she knew vouched for Mr V’s legitimacy. Her representatives 
told me that she’d spoken with specific other investors who had received returns and 
provided the names of personal contacts who had verbally confirmed receiving returns from 
Mr V. Unfortunately, other evidence that I’ve seen indicates either that those individuals 
didn’t receive returns or hadn’t done so at the point she made her investment and so that 
reassurance can’t have influenced her thinking about whether the opportunity was legitimate 
or not.  
I don’t say any of this to downplay the fact that she’s fallen victim to a cynical investment 
fraud here. She put her money under the control of Mr V in good faith and he appears to 
have deceived her. I have a great deal of sympathy for Ms C and the position she’s found 
herself in as a consequence. However, I’m satisfied that this outcome is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. 
Final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained above, I uphold this complaint in part. If Ms C accepts my 
 
 
final decision, Lloyds Bank PLC needs to refund 50% of the payment she made in 
connection with the scam. It also needs to add 8% simple interest per annum calculated to 
run from the date it declined her claim under the CRM until the date any settlement is paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2025. 
   
James Kimmitt 
Ombudsman