DRN-5128259 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr F complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(“Novuna”) is holding him liable for the debt on a loan which he says he didn’t consent to. 
 
What happened 
In July 2023, Mr F saw an advert for an investment opportunity which was endorsed by a 
well-known celebrity. The advert suggested he could make good returns by investing in 
stocks and shares with a company I’ll refer to as “B”. Unfortunately, the investment turned 
out to be a scam. 
 
Early in the scam period, Mr F was told that the funds he’d invested had been seized by the 
cryptocurrency exchange company as the activity was classed as fraudulent and that he’d 
have to pay £20,000 to release them. He told the scammer he couldn’t afford to pay this, and 
she told him that he could apply for an interest free loan with one of B’s sister companies 
which he could repay within 14 days using the returns from his investment. 
 
The scammer told Mr F to download AnyDesk remote access software onto his laptop and to 
set up online banking, and on 25 July 2023, £20,000 was credited into Mr F’s account from 
“Z”. He then transferred the funds to Bank C (an account which he was told to open by the 
scammer) and then onwards to a cryptocurrency exchange, under the guidance of the 
scammer.  
 
On 28 July 2023, a further loan was credited into his account from Bank N, and on receipt of 
a further email stating he’d have to pay a further £30,000, the scammer said again that she’d 
obtain loans from B’ sister companies. On 31 July 2023, two loans for £15,000 each were 
credited into the account from Novuna. Mr F then transferred these funds to Bank C the 
following day before sending them to a cryptocurrency exchange on the understanding that 
his money would be released. 
 
When Mr F discovered he’d been scammed, he complained to Novuna stating the loans 
were fraudulent and that he didn’t apply for them. He also said the loans were unaffordable 
and should never have been approved. 
 
Novuna said the applications weren’t fraudulent and that he would remain liable for the 
principal loan sums for both agreements. It said F’s genuine details were used on the 
applications which contained details of his annual income and employment, so it was clearly 
completed with his input. The loan agreements were sent to his genuine email address, he 
completed the e-signature to agree to the loans and the funds were paid into his genuine 
bank account before being transferred out of the account. 
 
Regarding the affordability of the loans, it said it had searched his credit record to check 
information such as borrowing history, how much he owed, how often he applied for credit, 
whether he made repayments on time, and whether he had any defaults, County Court 
Judgements, or insolvencies. It used his credit record along with other information provided 
on the loan application to calculate an overall score, and his score exceeded its minimum 
lending criteria and passed the credit check. It also used a third-party affordability product 

 
 
which provides trends overtime in relation to income and general indebtedness and assists 
with understanding on affordability and there was indication he’d struggle to service the loan 
agreement.  
 
However, it accepted it shouldn’t have agreed to lend Mr F the second loan and offered to 
remove all interest and charges applied from the start of the agreement. It also confirmed it 
had submitted a request to remove any negative information applied to his credit file for the 
agreement. Finally, it apologised for the time it had taken to review Mr F’s complaint and 
offered him £175 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused. 
 
Mr F wasn’t satisfied and so he complained to this service stating he didn’t apply for the 
loans, and that he wanted it to write off both loans and cancel all interest and charges. He 
said the scammer had taken out the loans having told him she was going to borrow funds 
from one of B’s sister companies and that he didn’t receive any loan agreements or emails 
from Novuna. 
 
Novuna explained that when carrying out a credit check it receives raw data from the credit 
reference agencies which mortgage balances and monthly payments, credit balances, 
payment statuses, application searches, insolvency and fraud markers, and income 
verification data. It said Mr F had allowed the scammer to access his device using AnyDesk 
and that he gave his driving licence and internet banking details which had enabled them to 
take out the loan. The funds had entered his genuine bank account and he’d transferred 
them to the scam. 
 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She noted Mr F 
had given the scammer everything she needed to pretend the loans were being applied for 
by Mr F, including his correct email address and telephone number, and it wasn’t 
unreasonable for Novuna to have believed the applications were genuine. 
 
She was satisfied that Mr F knew the loans were being applied for, commenting that when 
he first contacted Novuna, he said he’d applied for the loans under the instructions and 
coercion of the scammer who said he’d be able to repay the loan within 14 days.  
 
She noted Mr F was sent an email confirming the approved loans and details about the 
repayments and even though he denied receiving the email, she was satisfied it was sent to 
his correct email address and that he ought to have been on notice that a loan application 
was taking place. Further, as both loan applications were successfully completed, this 
means he’d received a text message and the codes to complete the loan applications. She 
accepted the scammer could have deleted emails or messages from Novuna using 
AnyDesk, but she was satisfied he knew the scammer was obtaining loans with sister 
companies, and that he’d be held liable for those loans. So, she was satisfied it was fair to 
him to be held liable for the principal loan sums. 
 
Regarding the affordability of the loans, she didn’t think the first loan was affordable and so 
she recommended that Novuna should remove the interest and charges for that loan. But 
she was satisfied that as Mr F did use the loan funds, albeit to send to a scam, she couldn’t 
fairly ask it to write off the loans.   
 
Mr F has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, maintaining he wasn’t 
the one who took out the loans. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
 
 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I’ve focused on what I think is the heart of the matter here. If there’s something I’ve not 
mentioned, it isn’t because I’ve ignored it. I haven’t. I’m satisfied I don’t need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This reflects the informal nature of our service. 
 
Consent 
 
In this case, my first consideration is: did Mr F know these loans were being taken out in his 
name, or was it done without his knowledge and consent? Having considered this carefully, I 
think it’s most likely the loans were taken out in Mr F’s name with his knowledge and consent 
at the time, and he therefore did consent to the loan agreements. 
 
I’m sorry Mr F was scammed. However, this was the fault of the scammers, not Novuna. I 
can’t see it was Novuna’s fault that scammer was able to take out loans in Mr F’s name 
given the fact he’d allowed them remote access to his device using AnyDesk, the application 
contained details of his annual income and employment, and the details on the loan 
applications were genuine, including his email address, bank account, and phone number. I 
note Mr F has argued that the address on the loan application was an old address and I 
accept this is because it was taken from his driving license. But this supports that the 
scammers were using information provided to them by Mr F. 
 
Mr F has argued that he wasn’t sent any emails or loan agreements. However, the email 
address and phone number on the loan applications were Mr F’s, so it’s likely the emails 
were received. However, even if the emails were intercepted by the scammers, he knew 
loans were being applied for and at the very least he facilitated the applications by giving the 
scammers remote access to his device and providing all the information necessary to 
complete them.  
 
Significantly, Mr F has described that the scammer told him a loan would be taken out in his 
name, albeit with one of B’s sister companies, and that he’d be able to repay the loan within 
14 days. I accept he believed the loan would be obtained from one of B’s sister companies, 
but he still had knowledge that a loan wase being applied for in his name and that it would 
need to be repaid. He also told Z that he’d known about the loans when he first made 
contact. So, I’m satisfied he knew about and consented to the loan applications.  
 
Further, the loans were received into Mr F’s genuine account, and he then moved the funds 
out to the scam, so while the funds were lost, I’m satisfied they were used. 
 
I couldn’t reasonably ask Novuna to write off the principal loan amounts unless its acts and 
omissions unfairly resulted in Mr F’s loss; and/or I was satisfied this was a fair and 
reasonable outcome. Consequently, I’m satisfied that Mr F should be held liable for the 
principal loan sums. 
 
Affordability 
 
Novuna has agreed to remove interest and charges for both loans and so I don’t need to 
consider affordability further.  
 
Novuna should now agree with Mr F an affordable repayment plan for both loans and as he 
hasn’t made any repayments towards either loan, I don’t recommend any changes are made 
to his credit file. 
 
Compensation 
 
 
 
Novuna has apologised and paid Mr F £175 compensation for the time it took to review his 
complaint, and I’m satisfied that’s fair.  
 
My final decision 
My final decision is that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK PLC trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
should remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the second loan. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2025. 
   
Carolyn Bonnell 
Ombudsman