DRN-4269125
Complaint
Mr T has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as “118 118 Money”) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr T with a loan for £2,000.00 in August 2022. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £88.74. One of our adjudicators reviewed what         
Mr T and 118 118 Money had told us. And he thought that 118 118 Money hadn’t done 
anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly. So he didn’t recommend that Mr T’s complaint be 
upheld. Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And I’ve used this approach to help me decide Mr T’s complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr T could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lender’s checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think it’s reasonable for a lender’s checks to be less thorough – in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it – in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower’s income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So we’d expect
a lender to be able to show that it didn’t continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr T’s application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr T could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr T has said he 
shouldn’t have been lent to.
I’ve carefully thought about what Mr T and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr T’s first loan with 118 118 Money. And         
118 118 Money has provided an output of the income and expenditure information recorded 
at the time of Mr T’s application as well as a record of the results of its credit searches.
118 118 Money’s searches appear to show that Mr T didn’t have too much in the way of 
existing debt. Furthermore, Mr T’s existing commitments were relatively well managed – 

there was a single missed payment and a couple of instances where Mr T was slightly over 
the limit on credit cards. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr T’s debt total at the 
time of the application was reasonable in comparison to his income. 
I accept that Mr T appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances weren’t fully 
reflected either in the information he’s provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained 
at the time. And while Mr T says that some of the information he provided at the time was 
incorrect, I don’t think it is the case that 118 118 Money ought to have realised this, as there 
was nothing to suggest that this was the case. 
118 118 Money could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. And as this was a first loan for a low amount that 118 118 Money was 
providing to Mr T and it had low monthly repayments, I’m satisfied that 118 118 Money was 
reasonably entitled to believe that Mr T could afford to make his payments.
Furthermore, given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I don’t 
think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended further than finding out 
a bit more about Mr T’s normal monthly living costs, which, in any event, wouldn’t have 
shown the loan to be unaffordable. 
As this is the case, I don’t think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr T – in my view, proportionate checks would more likely than not have suggested 
the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I don’t think that 118 118 Money treated Mr T unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And I’m not upholding Mr T’s complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr T. But I hope he’ll understand the reasons for my decision and that 
he’ll at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m not upholding Mr T’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman