DRN-4676929
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Tesco Underwriting Limited has handled a claim he made on
his car insurance policy.
What happened
In early 2023 Mr L made a claim on his Tesco car insurance policy. An object had hit his
windscreen causing a large crack to form. Tesco accepted the claim but had issues sourcing
the right colour tinted windscreen for Mr L’s car.
There was some back and forth around this for some time, and ultimately Tesco provided
two options; it would replace the windscreen with a different coloured tint and offered a 50%
contribution to have the other windows changed to match it. Or it would have the car
assessed to determine its market value. It said it was likely the overall repair cost it had
offered (which was nearly £2,000) would be greater than the market value, and if that was
the case, it could deem the car a total loss and Mr L could retain the salvage.
Mr L complained. He said he was initially told Tesco would replace all of the windows to
match, so this is what he wanted. Or he said he’d accept the car being a total loss as long as
the market value was given in line with the examples of car adverts he’d provided.
Tesco didn’t agree to change its position on the windows. So a complaint was brought to this
service. As well as wanting Tesco to replace all of the windows in his car, Mr L wanted
Tesco to reach out to other policyholders to notify them of issues surrounding the sourcing of
glass.
Our investigator didn’t think Tesco’s offer of a 50% contribution to the undamaged windows
was reasonable. She noted Tesco had wrongly confirmed to Mr L it would pay to replace all
of the windows. But she felt £300 compensation offered by Tesco was enough to reflect the
inconvenience caused by this.
She said she couldn’t compel Tesco to declare the car a total loss, but if it did, then based
on the industry guides used to assess market value, she was satisfied a value of £3,900 was
reasonable.
Tesco said it couldn’t agree to that valuation as it hadn’t had an opportunity to assess the
car. It did contact Mr L to arrange an inspection, but it seems there was a miscommunication
about why this was needed and so he didn’t agree. Tesco said until it had looked at the
condition of the car and the mileage, it couldn’t agree to a valuation. So it asked for an
ombudsman to decide the case.
Mr L accepted the assessment of the total loss of the vehicle but remained unhappy with the
compensation offered. He said he’s spent hours if not days contacting suppliers to replace
the windows and this had been ongoing for months. He said whilst he was told the car was
safe to use, he was worried about doing so. So he’d had to take his car off road whilst this
was sorted.

In February 2024 I issued a provisional decision on this case. As this forms part of my 
decision, it is copied below.
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isn’t the role of this service to decide how insurance claims should be settled. Our role is to
review whether Tesco has given Mr L a fair response to his complaint. Having considered
everything, I’m satisfied the offer it gave Mr L in its final response was a reasonable one, so
I’m not going to ask it to do anything differently, I’ve explained why below.
It’s not in dispute that the particular colour tint of Mr L’s car windows no longer seems readily
available. This isn’t Mr L’s fault, but neither is it Tesco’s. The car is over 15 years old; it’s not
unreasonable that some parts may be difficult or impossible to source now. I appreciate it’s a
frustrating and disappointing position for Mr L to be in, but if Tesco is unable to replace the
windscreen like for like, we’d expect it to make a reasonable offer under the policy, which I
think it’s done.
Under the policy, Tesco says it will pay the cost of repairing or replacing a damaged window.
It has agreed to replace the damaged window, but it hasn’t been able to provide an exact
replacement. There is nothing under the policy that says it will replace undamaged windows.
And the policy doesn’t say that if an exact match can’t be found for the insured damage, it
will replace all of the windows in the vehicle. Tesco has said it will pay to replace the
windscreen in a different colour tinted glass, and it will also contribute 50% towards the cost
of Mr L replacing the other, undamaged, windows to match. I think this is fair in the
circumstances.
There’s no dispute Mr L was initially told Tesco would cover the cost of replacing all of the
windows. Tesco has since said this was an error. Mr L said it seemed from the phone call
this information was even checked with a team leader, which is disappointing from Tesco’s
perspective. However, given what the policy says, I’m satisfied it was incorrect information
he was given. We wouldn’t generally consider it fair or reasonable to require a business to
make a payment because it mistakenly said it would do so. Our approach when a business
does something wrong, is to put Mr L back in the position he’d have been in, had the error
not occurred.
So in this case, Mr L should be put in the position he’d be in if he’d been correctly told about
what Tesco would cover under the policy. Which is that Tesco would offer a contribution to
the other windows or assess the car’s market value to see if it should be a total loss. As this
has been done I’m satisfied Tesco has been reasonable.
This service also expects, where errors happen, that Tesco pays compensation to reflect the
distress and inconvenience caused by giving the wrong information. I’ll come back to this
point later once I’ve addressed Tesco’s other option provided to Mr L.
Tesco said given the cost of replacing the windscreen and offering 50% for the others, it
might be that the cost exceeds the market value of the car. It said to provide an accurate
valuation, it offered to assess the vehicle and if it said the car was a total loss, Mr L could
retain the salvage.
There’s been a dispute as to who raised this as an option first, from what I’ve seen Mr L and
Tesco don’t agree on this. However, in its complaint response, what Tesco was offering to
do was assess the market value of his car. It did say in a phone call it expected this to be
around £2,000. Mr L provided adverts with much higher valuations on similar cars. But
ultimately, because the car hasn’t been inspected yet, Tesco hasn’t made an offer as to the
value of the car. It’s made an offer to inspect it and consider it a total loss if the cost of
repairs exceeds the market value, which I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. So I’m not
going to make Tesco do anything differently.
Our investigator did her own research and she felt a valuation – based on the mileage 
provided by Mr L - would be around £3,900. But it isn’t appropriate, at this stage, for this
service to make a finding on what a fair market value would be. We can check if Tesco made
a reasonable offer on the market value by assessing the trade guides available to us, but I
don’t think a reasonable outcome to this complaint is to say what Tesco should pay for the
market value when it hasn’t yet had chance to assess the car. Tesco has rightly pointed out
that the car may have other damage or features which would change its market value. So if
Mr L wants to pursue this option, he’d need to allow Tesco to assess the vehicle.
It's important to set out that I’m not requiring Tesco to write off Mr L’s vehicle, because I
consider its offer of replacement to be a fair and reasonable one. So if Mr L wants to pursue
the write off, he may do so. But I wouldn’t expect Tesco to agree to write off the car if the
market value far exceeds the offer it’s made of around £2,000 to replace the windscreen and
contribute toward replacing the undamaged windows.
Mr L has said his car wouldn’t have passed its MOT, so he’s declared it as off-road. I’d
expect Tesco to assist Mr L in assessing the vehicle if he chooses this option. But as set out
above, I’m not going to ask Tesco to pay a specific amount. I realise this will be frustrating
for Mr L to hear at this stage.
It's clear Tesco has made mistakes in this case. It has offered £300 to recognise this. Mr L
says this doesn’t go far enough as he spent hours if not days chasing up suppliers. He also
said this has been going on for a number of months and he’s been without the use of his car
during that time, as he was concerned about driving it with the crack in the windscreen.
I don’t doubt Mr L’s effort in sourcing the windows, and agree this is inconvenient, and
something he wouldn’t have needed to do if Tesco had given correct information. But I’m
satisfied the £300 offered by Tesco is a fair offer and in line with our awards for distress and
inconvenience. I can understand Mr L’s concern at using the car with the windscreen
cracked. But having considered everything I’m satisfied that from June 2023 Tesco had
corrected its mistakes and made a reasonable offer to move things forward, so I can’t hold
Tesco responsible for the car being off road since that time. So overall, I don’t think it needs
to pay anymore compensation.
I understand Mr L’s point that other Tesco policyholders might be affected by any challenges
in replacing windscreens. It isn’t the role of this service to tell Tesco how it should interact
with its policyholders going forwards. However, under the dispute resolution rules, Tesco are
bound to learn from the decisions of this service. I hope that provides some reassurance to
Mr L.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Tesco has made reasonable offers, so I’m not going to
require it to do anything differently. It is up to Mr L to decide how he wants to proceed.
Response to my provisional decision
Tesco didn’t provide a response. Mr L asked why it had been escalated to an Ombudsman 
when he’d broadly accepted the Investigator’s findings. He also said given the car was now 
off road there were issues such as a flat battery and he couldn’t have the vehicle cleaned 
before any valuation. He said this hadn’t been considered in my provisional decision.
Our Investigator clarified with Mr L that the reason the complaint was passed to me to decide 
was because Tesco didn’t accept the Investigator’s outcome, which it is entitled to do. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I haven’t been provided with anything that changes my opinion about how 
this complaint should be resolved.
I understand Mr L’s car has now been off-road for some time. He says there are issues with 
the battery and having it cleaned before any valuation inspection is carried out. As set out in 
my provisional decision, I’m satisfied Tesco made a reasonable offer to move things forward 
in June 2023. So I can’t hold it responsible for the car being off-road since that time. So I 
wouldn’t expect Tesco to pay for any work needed to the battery or the cleaning of the car. 
But if Mr L isn’t able to get the car to Tesco given these issues, I would expect it to assist 
him by sending someone to the location of the car to decide on a valuation, if that is what he 
chooses. 
Mr L also said he had concerns that Tesco would give a low valuation [if he chooses this 
option], based on what it had said to him previously. As set out in the provisional decision, 
Tesco hasn’t yet valued the car. It appears to have said that it thought the car might not be 
worth as much as the offer it had made to replace the windows. But it hasn’t given a 
valuation. And in any event, it doesn’t matter what the outcome of any total loss valuation is, 
as I feel the current offer to replace the damaged window and offer a 50% contribution to the 
others is a fair resolution to this complaint.
I also consider £300 compensation is sufficient for the distress and inconvenience caused in 
giving incorrect information initially, so if it hasn’t done so already, Tesco should pay this 
amount to Mr L.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Underwriting Limited has already made a fair offer to pay for 
the damaged window and 50% towards the undamaged ones. It has also offered to assess 
Mr L’s car as a total loss. So it is up to Mr L to decide which one to pursue. 
Tesco Underwriting Limited has also already made a fair offer of £300 for distress and 
inconvenience caused. If it hasn’t done so already, this should be paid to Mr L. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2024.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman