DRN-5360657 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr G’s complaint concerns a life and investment policy he has with Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited. He says he wasn’t given sufficient information about the policy to enable him to 
make informed decisions.  
 
Mr G’s policy was originally arranged with Friends Provident but subsequently transferred to 
Aviva. As liabilities for the policy overall were transferred with the policy, for ease I’ll refer to 
Aviva throughout this decision. 
 
What happened 
Mr G took out his policy in 1999 following advice from an independent financial adviser (IFA). 
The policy is a whole of life policy that could be set up with a funding term that meant it was 
effectively a mortgage endowment policy.  
The policy was invested in a unitised with-profits fund over a term of 25 years, and provided 
Mr G with life, serious illness and disability benefits. The benefits and the funding target were 
set at £136,800. To calculate the premium for the policy, Aviva was instructed by the IFA to 
use an annual assumed growth rate of 6.5%, which resulted in a monthly premium of 
£236.66. If the policy value was not claimed at the end of the 25-year term, the life cover 
would remain in place (and charged for) until the policyholder reached the age of 70, but no 
further premiums would be collected. 
The policy conditions, which would’ve been enclosed with the policy schedule sent to Mr G 
when the policy commenced, set out how the policy works and what options to change the 
policy were available to the policyholder. The policy provides for increases to the policy 
benefits or the term: 
7. Mortgage Increase Option 
(The Policy Schedule states if this Option is included.) 
(a) This Option is available on completion of a further advance or a new increased 
mortgage with a recognised institutional lender. The Policyholder may effect further 
policies of this type based on the life of the Life Assured stated in the Policy 
Schedule provided that the Policy is kept in force for the full Guaranteed Minimum 
Life Cover and the Life Assured is under the age of 50 at the time the Option is 
exercised.  
8. Mortgage Extension Option 
(a) This Option is available on extension of a mortgage with a recognised institutional 
lender. The Policyholder may extend the Contribution Payment Term of this Policy 
provided it has been kept in force for the full Guaranteed Minimum Life Cover and the 
Life Assured is under the age of 50 when the Option is exercised.  
21. Restrictions on Options 

 
 
(a) The rights under any Option in this Policy are limited to making such changes in the 
terms of the Policy and substituting such a policy as would be compatible with the 
requirements of a qualifying policy under the provisions of paragraph 19(3) schedule 
15, Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and as subsequently amended. 
In addition, the conditions detail: 
14. Cost of Life Cover and Serious Illness and Disability Benefit 
The cost of Life Cover, Serious Illness and Disability Benefits will be met by cancelling units 
each month. It will vary depending on the age of the Life (or Lives) Assured, by how much 
the Guaranteed Minimum Life Cover and/or the Serious Illness and Disability Benefits 
exceed(s) the Cash In Value, and on Friends Provident’s mortality and morbidity 
assumptions at the time. 
In 2013 Mr G asked Aviva about reducing the protection benefits provided by the policy. It 
was confirmed he could reduce the life cover and remove the other benefits. He was sent a 
quote, but he didn’t proceed with the changes. Later in the year, Mr G asked for information 
about the policy, including surrender and bonuses. 
In September 2017 Mr G again contacted Aviva for information about his policy. He was 
provided with the information he requested, and Aviva confirmed he was able to reduce the 
life cover associated with the policy and remove the serious illness benefit. Quotes were 
meant to be provided but Aviva failed to do so. In a subsequent letter that month, Aviva told 
Mr G that he couldn’t remove the life cover from the policy, but he could remove the critical 
illness benefit. Mr G didn’t take any further action at that time.  
Around a year later Mr G asked Aviva to provide him with another quote for reducing the 
benefits. There were again problems with Mr G being provided with the information he 
wanted. Aviva told him in a letter of 20 August 2018 that ‘This policy cannot be altered as 
there are less than ten years remaining on the premium term.’  
Mr G complained at that time about not having been given all the information he had 
requested about his policy, including adjusting the benefits. The complaint was referred to 
this Service. When Mr G did so, he included complaint points that he hadn’t previously 
raised with Aviva. It was explained to Mr G that the new complaint points would have to be 
raised with Aviva before we could consider them. An Ombudsman colleague issued a 
decision on the original complaint points on 14 February 2020. The complaint was not 
upheld.  
Mr G raised the new complaint points with Aviva, along with a new point about its behaviour 
when dealing with this Service when he had referred the original complaint. Aviva declined to 
comment on the complaint points, as it said it had already addressed his complaint.  
In 2022 Aviva provide Mr G with details of the charges that had been deducted for the 
administration of the policy and the cost of the benefits, along with the cost of managing the 
fund the policy was invested in. 
Aviva issued two complaint responses to Mr G in March 2024. Aviva said that it had given 
Mr G details of the policy charges in 2022, and it was his IFA’s responsibility to have 
explained how the policy worked when it was sold to him. It apologised for not having issued 
Mr G with policy statements in the first five years of the policy, but it highlighted that it had 
issued reviews in 2000 and 2003 that had told him whether his policy was on track to 
achieve its target amount or not. Aviva denied having misled this Service during our 
consideration of the complaint.  
 
 
Mr G wasn’t satisfied with Aviva’s response and referred the complaint to this Service. Aviva 
objected to us considering any aspect of the complaint we’d already considered, or which 
would fall outside our jurisdiction due to not having been raised in time. 
Another Ombudsman colleague issue a decision on 2 January 2025 in which she set out the 
parts of Mr G’s complaint we could and would be considering: 
• Aviva didn’t give Mr G monetary amounts for the charges associated with the policy in 
the early years (1999 to 2002), and he thinks the shortfall on the policy was due to the 
high charges that were applied rather than the stock market not performing well, as he 
was told. Mr G considers this represented Aviva conspiring in the mis-selling of the 
policy. 
• Mr G believing he was misled in 2013/14 when he contacted Aviva about reducing the 
benefits associated with the policy and was told he could. This is because when he 
asked for the same information in 2018, he was ultimately told he couldn’t alter the 
policy. He’s also said that in 2013/14 he was told by Aviva in telephone conversations 
that as the value of the policy increased, he would pay less for the protection benefits, 
which influenced him to leave the benefit levels as they were, but that was not the case, 
and the costs increased over the term. 
One of our investigators went on to consider the merits of these complaint points but didn’t 
recommend they be upheld.  
Mr G didn’t accept the Investigator’s conclusions. He said Aviva should’ve ensured he 
received all the information he needed from his IFA before he accepted the recommendation 
for the policy, and it hadn’t. Mr G suggested that it didn’t do this due to the amount of the 
initial charges, as the other policies that were discussed with him did not have such 
‘excessive and sustained charges.’  
Mr G also highlighted that he’d found seven instances between June 2017 and September 
2018 when it had confirmed the benefit levels could be changed and when this was 
confirmed in writing, it represented a contractual condition. Mr G also said Aviva had 
confirmed similar contractual conditions in writing on a further two occasions after August 
2018. Mr G didn’t provide documentary evidence of the occurrences that we weren’t already 
aware of. He said Aviva had breached the contract he had with it by not allowing him to 
reduce the life and critical illness benefits. Mr G said had Aviva told him in 2016 that he 
could not change the benefits associated with the policy in the last ten years, he would’ve 
cashed in the policy. The only reason he hadn’t done so in 2013 was because he was told 
he could change the benefit levels.  
Mr G said Aviva needed to pay him compensation for ‘fraudulently’ directing commission to 
his IFA and for deducting other charges, which denied him the right to cash-in the 
endowment policy without suffering unjustified losses (not linked to stock market risks), for 
misleading him in 2013 and for misleading him and his IFA in 2000. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
We review our jurisdiction to consider a complaint at each stage of our process. I’ve done 
so, and I agree with my colleague’s decision of 2 January 2025. As such, I won’t be 
commenting on any of the issues that were addressed in the final decision of 2022.  
 
 
In addition, I confirm that the new issue Mr G has raised in relation to the commission 
payment to the selling IFA would need to be referred to Aviva for response before we could 
comment on the matter. 
Mr G has said he believes that Aviva had a responsibility to ensure his IFA fully explained 
the policy to him and gave him all necessary information and documentation before he 
decided whether to take out the policy. He has also referenced the IFA as being an agent of 
Aviva.  
While I can understand that Mr G would like this to be the case, it was not. He sought 
financial advice from an independent financial adviser authorised by the then Regulator to 
provide him with advice. Aviva didn’t have any responsibility to ensure that the IFA did its job 
properly as the IFA would’ve needed to have appropriate industry qualifications and have 
evidenced to the Regulator that it was fit to undertake regulated activities such as selling 
investment products like Mr G’s policy.  
As for Aviva needing to have explicit consent from Mr G confirming he knew about the 
charges, especially the setting up charges that were paid for by a reduced allocation in the 
first 38 months, that again is not the case. An explanation of the policy, including the costs 
associated with it, should’ve been given to Mr G before he signed the application form for the 
policy, and it was entirely reasonable for Aviva to have accepted the application on that 
basis in 1999.  
I think it’s worth explaining the basic principles of how Aviva would’ve calculated the 
premium for Mr G’s policy. When an endowment policy was applied for in the 1990s it 
would’ve been normal for the target value, benefit level and term to be set to match the 
mortgage it was being arranged to protect and repay. The applicant and their IFA would also 
confirm what annual growth rate they wanted used when the monthly premium was 
calculated. The higher the growth rate selected, the higher the risk associated with the policy 
and the lower the monthly premium would be. At the time Mr G took out his policy the middle 
growth rate used for investment illustrations was 7.5% and it was very common for that rate 
to be selected for the calculation of monthly premiums for products like mortgage 
endowments.  
However, Mr G and his IFA selected a growth rate of 6.5%, which would’ve meant the risk of 
a shortfall on the policy was slightly lower than the average policy being sold at that time and 
would’ve been reflected in a slightly higher premium. While Mr G has said the June 2000 
letter indicates his policy was set up with a 6% growth rate assumed, that’s not the case. 
Indeed, had it been, his premiums would’ve been higher, and the shortfall shown on the 
June 2000 letter at the 6% growth rate wouldn’t have existed, as the growth rate used 
would’ve matched that which was at that time expected to be achievable going forward.  
I think it’s also important to provide some clarification regarding the documentation Mr G was 
sent about his policy. Annual statements and reviews have been referred to at different 
times. The former is something most providers would send out to policyholders that would 
give them an update on the value of their policy on an annual basis. Depending on the 
investment medium, the statement could include the unit holding, unit value or bonuses 
added. Monetary amounts for the charges wouldn’t have been included in such statements.  
In addition, due to poorer than anticipated returns on investment products in the late 1990s 
being expected to continue, the then Regulator required all life assurance companies to 
provide updates to mortgage endowment policyholders to let them know the likelihood of 
their policy reaching its target value, so they could act if they needed to.  
These letters are commonly referred to as endowment review letters and they were issued in 
 
 
addition to any statements or reviews required under the policy terms and conditions. 
Endowment review letters began to be issued in 2000 and initially were required to be sent 
at least every three years – hence Mr G receiving such letters in 2000 and 2003. Most 
product providers sent a copy of these letters to the selling IFA in the early years as well as 
the policyholder, although there was no regulatory requirement for them to do so.  
The letter Mr G has referenced of 24 June 2000 is an endowment review letter – it provided 
him with an idea about whether, based on revised growth rates set by the Regulator after his 
policy was arranged, his policy was likely to reach its target value. The fact that the policy 
was projected, at 6% annual growth, to fall short of its target value shouldn’t be taken as an 
indication that Aviva set the policy up incorrectly, as Mr G has indicated he believes. Rather, 
it reflects the changes to expectations for investment growth over the long term that were 
assumed from 2000. The rates used for projections were reduced several more times over 
the following years, which again doesn’t reflect any wrongdoing or error on Aviva’s part. 
Charges 
As I’ve said above, Aviva wasn’t responsible for making Mr G aware of the charges 
associated with the policy before he committed to taking it out. That was the responsibility of 
his IFA. 
It was quite normal across the industry for the cost of setting up an endowment policy to be 
paid in the form of an upfront reduced allocation in the early years of the policy. While Mr G 
has said that if he had known about the upfront charges, he would’ve selected another of the 
policies he was given the option of, it’s highlight likely that any alternative would also have 
had upfront setting up charges associated with it.  
In addition, Aviva produced a policy brochure for the endowment policy, which was a generic 
document explaining the basics of how it worked. That would’ve confirmed that there were 
charges associated with the policy, but it wouldn’t have given much detail about what they 
would be or how they were calculated. In addition, Aviva sent Mr G an illustration along with 
the cancellation notice in May 1999. It detailed the reduced allocation period of 38 months to 
cover the cost of setting up the policy and showed that the policy would be unlikely to have 
much of a value during that period.  
The policy conditions that would’ve been sent to Mr G with the policy schedule also included 
an explanation of how the life cover and other benefit charges would be calculated.  
I note Mr G recently said he didn’t receive any documentation regarding his policy in 1999, 
and so didn’t receive the above-mentioned information. As I’ve confirmed above it was 
standard procedure for a life assurance company to send out documentation to a 
policyholder when their policy started. Indeed, it was a requirement for some of that 
information to be provided, such as the cancellation notice.  
I’ve looked at the documentation and it was sent to the correct address. While post can go 
astray, that’s usually when it’s not correctly addressed, and the majority of post that is 
correctly addressed is received at the intended address. So, while Mr G has said he has no 
recollection of receiving the documentation, I think it more likely than not that it was correctly 
delivered. I also think it is unlikely Mr G wouldn’t have raised the issue in 1999 had he not 
received anything from Aviva confirming that his policy had started and what it was. Overall, 
I’m satisfied Aviva provided Mr G with the information I’d have expected it to.  
As for Mr G’s concern about not having been sent policy statements in the early years of the 
policy, it is unfortunate if that did not happen. However, as I’ve said, policy statements at that 
time wouldn’t have included the information Mr G seems to think they would’ve. All they 
 
 
would’ve done was to make him aware that the policy didn’t have a significant value, which 
the illustration(s) he’d received previously would’ve already made him aware of. The setting 
up and benefit costs wouldn’t have been highlighted in those statements and even if they 
had been mentioned, a monetary value wouldn’t have been given. I note that Aviva has 
apologised if Mr G didn’t receive policy statements during the initial years of his policy term. I 
think that’s sufficient in the circumstances.  
I’m satisfied it wasn’t a requirement for a life assurance company to set out the charges 
associated with a policy in monetary terms until 2018. So, I can’t find Aviva at fault for not 
doing so before that date. I’d also comment that this would often not be done as part of an 
annual policy statement, as Mr G seems to believe it should’ve been, but rather as a 
standalone annual document solely about charges. 
Shortfall 
Mr G has said that the fact that his policy didn’t reach its target value was due to the high 
charges applied, rather than the poor performance of the fund it was invested into. I can 
understand why he’s said this, as the higher than expected (based on the assumptions 
made when the premium was calculated) charges will have impacted the value of the policy. 
However, the underlying cause of that is due to the poor performance of the fund the policy 
invested in – the policy was worth less than predicted, which meant the amount of benefits 
that were charged for was higher than was anticipated when the premium was set. 
Discussions about changing the benefits in 2013/14 
As has been detailed above, the only options for changing the benefits the policy provided 
was to increase them. When Mr G asked if he could reduce the policy benefits in 2013, 
Aviva said yes to the request. This was not something Mr G was entitled to under the policy 
conditions, but rather a concession Aviva allowed at that time.  
I note Mr G has said that by Aviva stating in writing that it would allow the benefits to be 
reduced that option became a policy condition. But that isn’t the case. When a financial 
services company agrees a concession, it doesn’t become a contractual term, and the 
concession can be changed or removed at the business’ discretion.  
I’d highlight that the options to change the policy benefits under the policy terms only allowed 
such changes if they would not risk the qualifying status of the policy (condition 21). That’s 
the same approach Aviva ultimately took in relation to Mr G’s later requests to change the 
policy.  
Mr G has stressed that the policy conditions state that the policy sets out the contract at its 
commencement and that alterations to it or the exercise of options may not be shown. This 
is not incorrect, as it acknowledges that alterations to the policy could be made, without the 
exercise of the options listed in the policy conditions. This would reflect Aviva’s ability to 
make concessions and allow changes that the policyholder is not entitled to make under the 
contract they have entered into.  
Mr G has said that he was told the cost of benefits would reduce as the term progressed. 
Unfortunately, due to the time that’s passed, there are no records or recordings of relevant 
calls available, so I can’t know exactly what Mr G was told in 2013/14.  
While I accept it’s possible Mr G was given incorrect information about this, to uphold this 
part of the complaint I would need to be persuaded that it was more likely than not that he 
was. So, I’ve looked at the limited documentation available about the issue. That is a letter 
confirming the life cover charge was based on the amount of life cover being provided, which 
 
 
was calculated as the sum assured less the cash-in value.  
While Mr G has said he assumed this would mean the cost would also reduce, the letter 
doesn’t say that’s the case. On that basis, and given the situation with the policy having 
underperformed, I’m unable to conclude that it’s more likely than not that Mr G was told the 
cost of the benefits would reduce as the term progressed.  
My final decision 
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2025. 
   
James Harris 
Ombudsman