DRN-4405490
Complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (“Moneybarn”) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. He’s said that the payments to the agreement were 
unaffordable, so he should not have been lent to. 
Background
In August 2021, Moneybarn provided Mr B with finance for a used car. The purchase price of 
the vehicle was £8,495.00. Mr B paid a deposit of £445 and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement, which had a 42-month term, with Moneybarn for the remaining £8,050.00. 
The loan had interest and charges of £5,672.29. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £13,722.29 (not including Mr B’s deposit) was due to be repaid in 41 monthly 
instalments of £334.69.
Mr B complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didn’t uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr B’s complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didn’t think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. So he didn’t recommend that Mr B’s 
complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And I’ve used this approach to help me decide Mr B’s complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything I’ve been provided with, I’m not upholding           
Mr B’s complaint. I’d like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr B before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lender’s checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think it’s reasonable for a lender’s checks to be less 
thorough – in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information – in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower’s income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had – such as a significantly impaired 

credit history – suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrower’s 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr B provided details of his monthly 
income, which it cross checked against information it received on the funds going into Mr B’s 
account each month that it obtained from credit reference agencies. It also says that it 
carried out credit searches on Mr B, which had shown that he had previously defaulted on 
credit accounts and that he had county court judgments (“CCJ”) recorded against him. 
Although the most recent default was 9 months prior and the most recent CCJ 18 months 
prior to this application. 
In Moneybarn’s view, when the amount Mr B already owed plus a reasonable amount for    
Mr B’s living expenses (based on average data) were deducted from his monthly income the 
monthly payments for this agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr B says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
I’ve thought about what Mr B and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that unlike our investigator, I’m not persuaded that the checks 
Moneybarn carried out did go far enough. For example, I’m not persuaded that it was 
reasonable to rely on an estimate of Mr B’s living costs given what the credit search carried 
out showed, the monthly payments, the term of the agreement and the total cost of the loan. 
In these circumstances, I think that Moneybarn ought to have had a reasonable 
understanding about Mr B’s actual living expenses and used this information to supplement 
what it already had on his income and existing credit commitments. That said, I don’t think 
that Moneybarn obtaining this further information on Mr B’s actual living costs would have 
made a difference to its decision to lend in this instance. 
I say this because when Mr B’s committed regular living expenses are combined with what 
Moneybarn knew about his existing credit commitments, and then deducted from his monthly 
income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due 
under this agreement.  
I accept it’s possible that Mr B’s actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what I’ve seen here. For example, I can see that Mr B did go on to take out further 
borrowing elsewhere. But a lender is only able to make a decision based on what it has, or 
at the very least is likely to have. 
And as obtaining further information about Mr B’s monthly living costs, is unlikely to have 
shown the agreement to be unaffordable, while I appreciate that it might have proven more 
difficult for Mr B to make his payments than he’d anticipated, I don’t think that asking for 
more information would have prevented Moneybarn from lending in this instance. 
  
As this is the case, I don’t think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr B. So I’m not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr B. But I hope he’ll understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
Although I’m not upholding Mr B’s complaint, I would like to remind Moneybarn of its 
obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration, now that it has been told more 
about Mr B’s financial position, in the event that Mr B is having difficulty making payments to 
the remaining outstanding balance going forwards.
My final decision
My final decision is that I’m not upholding Mr B’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman