DRN-4971400 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr L complains about the decision taken by Lloyds Bank PLC to decline his claim for a 
refund in respect of a payment he made using his Lloyds credit card account.  
What happened 
On 8 July 2023, Mr L ordered a watch using his Lloyds credit card. Mr L’s credit card 
statement shows he paid a company I’ll refer to as “S”. Mr L has provided submissions, in 
respect of his purchase and in support of his complaint, referencing a number of different 
companies, none of which are S. 
 
Mr L says the watch he received wasn’t the one he had ordered and/or wasn’t in line with the 
description he had relied on when placing his order. Mr L says he tried to obtain a refund for 
his purchase with the party he believed was responsible but was unable to do so. 
 
In December 2023, Mr L contacted Lloyds to request a refund. However, Lloyds declined 
Mr L’s request. Unhappy with Lloyds, Mr L complained. Lloyds went on to consider Mr L’s 
complaint but didn’t uphold it. Unhappy with Lloyds decision not to uphold his complaint Mr L 
referred it to our service. 
 
One of our Investigators reviewed Mr L’s complaint but came to the view that Lloyds had 
done nothing wrong. 
 
Mr L didn’t agree with our investigator’s view so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
It’s important to note that Lloyds isn’t the supplier of the watch here. So in order to decide if it 
has acted fairly, I need to consider its role as a provider of financial services only. Mr L used 
his Lloyds credit card to pay for the watch. And with this in mind I consider the card  
protections of chargeback and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) to be 
particularly relevant as to how Lloyds could reasonably assist Mr L. It’s these I’ve focused on 
when determining what is fair and reasonable. 
 
Chargeback 
 
A chargeback claim is decided on the relevant card scheme’s rules, rather than on the merits 
of the underlying dispute. Here, the rules are set out by Mastercard and Lloyds has no power 
to change them. By the time Mr L contacted Lloyds to request a refund, it was too late for it 
to raise a chargeback and I don’t think it did anything wrong in not doing so. 
 
Section 75 of the CCA 
 

 
 
Section 75 in certain circumstances will allow Mr L to hold Lloyds liable for breach of  
contract or misrepresentation by a supplier of goods or services he paid for using his Lloyds  
credit card. However, in order for Section 75 to apply there are certain criteria that need to 
be satisfied. One of those is there needs to be the correct ‘debtor-creditor-supplier’ (“DCS”) 
agreement for a valid claim.  
 
The easiest way to explain this is by saying that when someone makes a payment on their 
credit card, in order to make a Section 75 claim against their credit card provider they need 
to have used the credit card to pay the same company they say has misrepresented 
something to them or breached its contract with them. If they paid someone else, then there 
won’t be a DCS agreement that would allow them to claim against their card provider, 
 
Notwithstanding that, from the information that has been provided, it’s not entirely clear who 
exactly Mr L might have contracted with for the supply of the watch (a number of companies 
being referenced), what isn’t in dispute is that it wasn’t S, the party Mr L paid for the supply 
of the watch.  
 
There are some circumstances where payment can be made to one party and the goods or  
services can be supplied by another party and Section 75 will apply. This is where a specific  
relationship between the party which took payment and the party which supplied the goods  
or services are “associates” as defined under Section 184 of the CCA.  
 
Mr L hasn’t provided any evidence to show S and the other companies referenced are 
associated and this service hasn’t been able to find any information to show any link 
between them either. So, in the circumstances, I don’t think it was unfair for Lloyds to decline 
Mr L’s Section 75 claim on the grounds of a requisite DCS agreement being absent. 
 
I’m also not persuaded that what Mr L submitted to Lloyds, in support of his refund request, 
demonstrates a misrepresentation or a breach of contract for the same reasons as those 
outlined by our Investigator. So, even if I wasn’t of the view that the requisite DCS 
agreement is absent in this case, I don’t think it was unfair for Lloyds to decline Mr L’s 
Section 75 claim on the grounds of there being insufficient evidence in support of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contact. 
 
As I‘ve explained, I’m not ultimately determining if Mr L was wronged here (by one or more 
companies referenced) or ruling out the possibility of a scam. Only whether Lloyds should 
fairly be held responsible in the particular circumstances for refunding him in respect of his 
transaction. And noting the limitations of the chargeback scheme and the strict provisions of 
Section 75, I don’t think that in the particular circumstances of this case Lloyds acted unfairly 
in not making a refund to Mr L. 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision 
I realise my decision will disappoint Mr L, but I have not upheld his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2025.   
Victoria Blackwood 
Ombudsman